[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
The United States federal government should develop and demonstrate Solar Power Satellites via Arbitrarily Large PHased Array.

Advantage 1 is energy
Exhaustion of all energy resources is inevitable – only SSP can meet rising global demand
Snead 8 – MS in Aerospace Engineering
Mike Snead, MS in Aerospace Engineering from Air Force Institute of Technology, Past Chair of American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, Former director of Science & Technology, HQ Air Force Materiel Command, Awarded Outstanding Achievement for Excellence in Research @ USAF, 11-19-2008, “The End of Easy Energy and What to Do About It,” http://mikesnead.net/resources/spacefaring/white_paper_the_end_of_easy_energy_and_what_to_do_about_it.pdf
By 2100, the number of people …power generation capability for the world.

A transition away from fossil fuels is inevitable but slow – US action expedites the transition globally – solves growth, climate change and raises living standards for the bottom billion
Stanislaw 8 – PhD @ Edinburgh, former Professor @ Cambridge, Former Senior Economist @ OECD
Joseph Stanislaw, “Energy In Flux: The 21st Century's Greatest Challenge,” ABA Antitrust Law, http://apps.americanbar.org/antitrust/at-committees/at-tei/pdf/programs/spring-08/SpringMeeting3.pdf
Tectonic forces are roiling …cannot afford to wait another 30 years.

SPS is competitive with fossil fuels in the near-term
Hornitschek et al 8 – Colonel in the USAF
Mike, Hornitschek, Colonel in the USAF, 2008, “Solar power from space can help keep the peace on Earth,” Ad Astra, http://www.nss.org/adastra/AdAstra-SBSP-2008.pdf
Like all species in …that calculus is about to change.


We’ll isolate two scenarios:
First is warming:

It’s real and human-induced—cuts are key
Somerville 11 – Professor of Oceanography @ UCSD
Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis
1n early 2007, …well within this century.


Global warming is real and human induced – top climate scientists agree
Anderegg et. al 10 – PhD Candidate @ Stanford in Biology
William, “Expert credibility in climate change,” National Academy of Sciences, p. 12107-12109
Preliminary reviews of regarding anthropogenic climate change.


Warming leads to extinction – SSP is key
Flournoy 12 – PhD and MA from the University of Texas, Former Dean of the University College @ Ohio University, Former Associate Dean @ State University of New York and Case Institute of Technology, Project Manager for University/Industry Experiments for the NASA ACTS Satellite, Currently Professor of Telecommunications @ Scripps College of Communications @ Ohio University
Don, "Solar Power Satellites," January, Springer Briefs in Space Development, Book
The National Space Society (NSS) …energy resource of our Sun” (Hsu 2010) (Fig. 2.1).

Solving coal emissions is sufficient—it’s an existential risk
Hansen 9 - Director of Nasa's Goddard Institute for Space Studies
James Hansen, Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Columbia University and Ph.D. in Physics from the University of Iowa), “Coal-fired power stations are death factories. Close them,” The Observer, Sunday 15 February 2009, pg. http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2009/feb/15/james-hansen-power-plants-coal
A year ago, I wrote to …dioxide rose another 100 ppm.

Scenario two – Resource Conflict
Energy is the proximate cause of 21st century conflict – SPS solves great power war
Dinerman 8 – DoD Consultant
Taylor Dinerman, DoD Consultant, 9-15-2008, “War, peace, and space solar power,” Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1209/1
It was a little …pipelines and shipping routes will diminish.

Resource shortages cause global conflict
Nordas and Gleditsch 9 -*MA in Politics, Professor of Political Science
Ragnhild, Nils, 2009, “IPCC and the climate-conflict nexus,” http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/IPRI_IPCCClimateConflictNexus.pdf
IPCC (2001) points …and international security’ (p. 107).

Advantage 2 is leadership
A fast and large US investment in SSP turns the US into a net energy exporter – that’s key to resource control
Chapman et al 11 – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo Program
Phil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html
The expected cost of …electricity as well as petroleum.
Energy control is the only way to sustain US hegemony
Padilla 10 – Harvard Graduate, former Intern @ White House office of Communications, Research Asst. @ Kennedy School of Government, Founder and CEO @ Saber Hoy
Jonathan Padilla, “The Vanguard of Global Leadership: The Case for American Energy Independence in the 21st Century,” 2010, The last date cited in the article is 2-10-2010, http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/Energy%20Independence%20-%20Padilla%20Final.pdf
"We become just ..vanguard of global leadership.

Leadership solves great power war
Zhang and Shi 11 – *Yuhan Zhang is a researcher at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Currently on leave from Graduate School in Economic and Political Development, Lin Shi, MA from Columbia in International Affairs, also serves as an independent consultant for the Eurasia Group and a consultant for the World Bank
America’s decline: A harbinger of conflict and rivalry, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2011/01/22/americas-decline-a-harbinger-of-conflict-and-rivalry/
This does not necessarily .. of unrivalled US primacy.

Longitudinal empirical analysis supports our impacts
Drezner 5 – Professor of IR @ Tufts
Daniel, Gregg Easterbrook, Associate Professor of International Politics at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, “War, and the dangers of extrapolation”
Daily explosions in Iraq, …intervention would be equally daunting.


Double-dip is coming – reversing fiscal austerity is key to avoid collapse
Kuttner 4-1 – MS in Economics from the London School of Economics, Senior Research Fellow @ Demos, Founder of the American Prospect
Robert, “Recipe for a Double-Dip Recession,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/robert-kuttner/double-dip-recession_b_1395455.html
With the economy just …the real lesson of Greece.



The process of development creates tech spin-offs that prevent economic collapse
NSSO 7
National Security Space Office, Report to the Director, 10-10-2007, “Space-Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security; Phase 0 Architecture Feasibility Study,” NSS, http://www.nss.org/settlement/ssp/library/final-sbsp-interim-assessment-release-01.pdf
Finding: The SBSP ..portfolio by mid‐century and beyond.


Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report …more dog-eat-dog world.


Even absent a recession, slow growth leads to global wars
Khalilzad 11 – PhD, Former Professor of Political Science @ Columbia, Former ambassador to Iraq and Afghanistan
Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992. "The Economy and National Security" Feb 8 www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024
Today, economic and fiscal …aggressive moves in their regions.



SOLVENCY

Status quo approaches to SPS-ALPHA non-unique their DAs, but development and demonstration are key
David 4-9 - winner of last year's National Space Club Press Award and a past editor-in-chief of the National Space Society's Ad Astra and Space World magazines
Leonard, “Energy-hungry Earth sees a solution in space,” http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/46993879/ns/technology_and_science-space/#.T44ZlJpWrQi
An energy-hungry Earth…. system," he concluded.
Scientific consensus proves the SPS-ALPHA overcomes previous hurdles
Mankins 12 – MBA in Public Policy, 25-year scientist @ CalTech's Jet Propulsion Laboratory and NASA
John, “SPS-ALPHA,” http://www.nasa.gov/pdf/636903main_Mankins_Presentation.pdf
Two workshops ….
of the US, its friends and allies…


Only a large up-front federal investment and a demonstration project can jumpstart private investment for SSP
General Electric 11
General Electric’s Technology Blog, facilitates discussions about science and technology with an eye on the future of renewable energy, transportation, infrastructure, etc., 4-4-2011, “Space Race: Will Space-Based Solar Take Off?,” http://www.txchnologist.com/volumes/solar-power/solar-in-space
Clean, efficient and available 24-7, ..excited about the future again.






SSP can be up and running within one year
Costa, 10 - sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric
Rebecca, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?” Clean Technica, 11/1, http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/

If we took a moment to rank …
energy solution here on earth.

Inflatable SSP slashes costs, maximizes energy collection, and overcomes traditional barriers
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
As such is the ….kilometer of space in Earth orbit.

SSP is resilient and efficient
Reed and Willenberg 4 – *Analyst @ Welsom Space Power, PhD in Nuclear Engineering
Kevin and Harvey J., “Early… the operational space environment.

Conventional renewables can’t meet rising demand- only SSP solves
Nansen 10 – Former space engineer
Ralph Nansen, world leader in designing, developing and promoting Solar Power Satellites. Nansen spent 31 years with The Boeing Company, asked to testify before such Congressional committees as the Senate Space Subcommittee in 1976 and the House Subcommittee on Space and Aeronautics in 1978 and again in September 2000, 12-2010, “Low Cost Access to Space is Key to Solar Power Satellite Deployment,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/nansen.html
Today we face the …energy well before 2100."[2]

Transparency and structural barriers prevent weaponization
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon “Weaponization, Environmental Risk, and Multinational Approaches”
“Your concern about weaponization …removes the risk of weaponization.

No risk of interference or GEO disruption
Smith 8 – PhD Student @ University of Reading
M.V., Lt. Col, PhD student in the strategic studies program under Professor Colin Gray at the University of Reading in the UK, winner of the National Space Society’s 2008 Space Pioneer Award, Chief of Future Concepts (Dream Works) the Pentagon, http://spacesolarpower.wordpress.com/2008/08/31/parking-slots-and-frequencies/
How does a company …not disrupt existing services.


=Round 2-- neg v. Pace BC= 
1NC: Jackson Vanik,DoD trade off, development DA (on case), exceptionalism K, Japan do the plan CP w/ Japanese leadership internal net benefit
2NR: Politics, CP

1nc Jackson Vanik

US congress will repeal Jackson Vanik despite human rights and diplomatic concerns
SCF 4/13
* USRBC US-Russia Business Council
(Strategic Culture Foundation, Strategic Culture Foundation provides a platform for exclusive analysis, research and policy comment on Eurasian and global affairs. Covering political, economic, social and security issues worldwide. Since 2005 our journal has published thousands of analytical briefs and commentaries with the unique perspective of independent contributors from the US, Canada, India, Russia and Europe. SCF works to broaden and diversify expert discussion by focusing on hidden aspects of international politics and unconventional thinking. Benefiting from the expanding power of the Internet, we work to spread reliable information, critical thought and progressive ideas.13 April 2012, “US Congress increasingly realise Jackson-Vanik repeal need”
http://www.strategic-culture.org/news/2012/04/13/us-congress-increasingly-realise-jackson-vanik-repeal-need.html)
The US Congress members …the USSR.

The plan will require massive political capital investment. Spin won’t solve (even if funds trade off)
Mark S. Avnet, 2006. Engineering Systems Division, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The space elevator in the context of current space exploration policy, May 2, 2006, Space Policy 22 (2006) 133–139, www.sciencedirect.com.
The scale and scope of the …‘‘incremental’’ [13] decision making.

Obama has to lay the ground work for repeal
Moscow Times 12/14
WASHINGTON — The White House faces …
members of Congress feel today."


Relations are at a breaking point – failure to repeal Jackson Vanik will emboldens Russian nationalism and devastates reset
Goodrich 12/13
Lauren Goodrich is a research analyst at STRATFOR, from where this article is adapted.
The Cutting Edge News 12/13
http://www.thecuttingedgenews.com/index.php?article=53358&pageid=89&pagename=Features
Tensions between ….
possible only to derail it.

Russian relations are key to solve every impact-alternative is crisis escalation and war
Nixon Center 2009
The Commission on U.S. Policy toward Russia joint project of The Nixon Center and the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, a research center within Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, “The Right Direction for U.S. Policy toward Russia,” March 2009 http://www.nixoncenter.org/RussiaReport09.pdf
Securing America’s ….could impose significant costs.

Exceptionalism K

The affirmative’s unilateral approach to space reifies exceptionalism –
***the Billings card makes this argument, but you can throw in another link card if you want***
Billings 7 – Professor @ GWU
Linda, “Societal Impact of Space Flight,” p. 483-484
The ideas of frontier pioneering…m favor of a cause, idea, or policy.

The impact is extinction
Smith 3 – Professor of Political Science @ Penn
Rogers, Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania and PhD Harvard University, “Stories Of Peoplehood, The Politics and Morals of Political Membership”, p. 166-169
It is certainly important to ….and Jurgen Habermas all envision.

The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s nationalistic representations – this is a pre-requisite
Billings 6 – Professor @ GWU in Media and Public Affiars
Linda, “To the Moon, Mars, and Beyond: Culture, Law and Ethics in Space-Faring Societies,” 2-3-2006, http://lindabillings.org/lb_papers/space_law_ethics_culture.pdf
Facing an opportunity to envision a new…why we should be going into space.

The role of the ballot is to investigate methodology before policy recommendations – rejecting nationalism creates an accurate research agenda that advances shared human interest
Beck and Szaider 6 – Professor of Sociology, Professor @ Tel Aviv
Ulrich, Professor for Sociology at the University of Munich, Natan, Professor at The Academic College of Tel Aviv Yaffo “Unpacking cosmopolitanism for the social sciences: a research agenda” The British Journal of Sociology, 5.1, http://www.promusica.se/Library/Electronic%20texts/Beck_Sznaider2006.pdf
Methodological nationalism takes …avoid becoming a museum of antiquated ideas.


1nc Japan do the plan

Japan should substantially increase its development of a space elevator.

Japan can build space elevator- k/t leadership
Colony Worlds 8
“Awesome: Japan May Commit $10 Billion Towards Space Elevator,” http://www.colonyworlds.com/2008/10/awesome-japan-may-commit-10-billion-towards-space-elevator.html
With both the US and China …out to half the planet.

Japanese leadership is key to Asian multilateralism
Hsiao and Yang 9 - * Ph.D., is the Executive Director of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS), and Research Fellow at the Institute of Sociology, both at Academia Sinica, Taiwan, ** Ph.D., is the Postdoctoral Fellow of the Center for Asia-Pacific Area Studies (CAPAS) at Academia Sinica, Taiwan. His areas of specialization include international relations theory, Asia-Pacific regionalism and ASEAN
Michael and Alan, “Soft Power Politics in the Asia Pacific: Chinese and Japanese Quests for Regional Leadership,” The Asia-Pacific Journal: Japan Focus, http://www.japanfocus.org/-A_-Yang/3054
Another dimension of Japan’s …Tokyo’s soft power diplomacy.



That solves Asian territorial conflict
-stanislaw- they take decades to transition- conflicts erupt before SPS displacement solvency- turns resource solvency
Nanto 8 – Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs Specialist
Specialist in Industry and Trade Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division for Congressional Research Services, East Asian Regional Architecture: New Economic and Security Arrangements and U.S. Policy,” www.fas.org/sgp/crs/row/RL33653.pdf
A stronger regional ….in Asian countries.

Nuclear war
Chakraborty 10
United Service Institution of India“The Initiation & Outlook of ASEAN Defence Ministers Meeting (ADMM) Plus Eight,” http://www.usiofindia.org/Article/?pub=Strategic%20Perspective&pubno=20&ano=739
The first ASEAN Defence Ministers ….turning into a nuclear conflict.



DoD trade off DA


( ) F-35 Saved Now but Will Still Be Targeted

Martinez 1/5/12 (Luis, pg. http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/01/new-pentagon-strategy-calls-for-leaner-but-still-dominant-military/)

Another way the …budget savings.

The AF does the plan – their author
Kent, 7 - Major, USAF, Blue Horizons Paper for the Center for Strategy and Technology at the Air War College (Jason, “Getting to Space on a Thread … Space Elevator as Alternative Access to Space,” April,
The need for cheap …way of reaching space.”81

( ) Specifically, It Trades Off with Funding for the F-35

Dinerman 6 (Taylor, February 27, The Space Review, pg. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1)

It’s time to admit that …elements are getting.




( ) F-35 Key to US-Japan Relations

Azuma 11 (Andrew, August 2, pg. http://blog.american.com/2011/08/bolstering-japans-defenses-with-f-35s/)

This December, the Japanese …and tactical cooperation.


A strong US-Japanese alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars
Armitage 00
Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online.
Major war in Europe …global security strategy.



Launch Costs Adv.

( ) US Launch Providers Increasing Now

Spaceref 9 (December 28, pg. http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewpr.html?pid=29907)

It should …not yet fully proven.




Plan is a key SSP enabler
Brown 9 – Masters in Science
Trevor, MSc from Nanyang Technological University, 2009, “SSP: a spherical architecture,” The Space Review, http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1383/1
As SSP advocates are …energy markets en masse.

SPS leads to interference – hurts asteroid detection, leads to light pollution and collapses GPS
Weigel 7 – Assistant Professor of Aeronautics and Astronautics and Engineering Systems at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Annalisa, “Solar Power Satellites: Historical Perspectives with a Look to the Future,” November, http://lean.mit.edu/docman/2007-conference-papers/view-category.html
A major concern …create light pollution.32

Extinction
Matheny 7 – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins
Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm
Even if extinction …that threaten 100%.

Economic Collapse Won’t Lead to World War- 3 Reasons

Rachman 11/28/11 (Gideon, Financial Times, pg. http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/79656ee4-19b3-11e1-ba5d-00144feabdc0.html#axzz1f2ewc1fn)

The lesson of the 1930s …peace and prosperity.

US Economy Rebounding Now- Will Boost Overall Power

Newman 4/26/12 (Rick, pg. http://www.usnews.com/news/blogs/rick-newman/2012/04/26/6-reasons-america-will-rebound)

America's decline is a familiar …capable and prosperous workforce.


Solvency
Space exploration would take thousands of years, even if it succeeds- short term impacts o/w
Robertson ’06
[Donald F. Robertson, freelance space journalist, 3-6-2006, “Space Exploration,” Space News, http://www.space.com/spacenews/archive06/RobertsonOpEd_030606.html]
Dangerous it will be. …or unaffordable.



Environment adv.
( ) Ozone Loss Not Tied to Human Deaths

Tanton 11 (Thomas, September 26, pg. http://news.heartland.org/newspaper-article/2011/09/26/epa-misrepresents-benefits-ozone-restrictions)

To justify the …scary proposition.


( ) Aff authors conclude the status quo solves

Science Daily 9 (pg. http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2009/03/090331153014.htm

The research team …doing nothing."

Nitric acid
Fertilizer is the biggest source of nitric acid

Want to know it 12 (pg. http://wanttoknowit.com/uses-of-nitric-acid/)

Nitric acid is …glassware in the laboratory.





=Round 3-neg v. GBS OT RAMOS aff= 
1NC: ex-im politics, US take nukes off early launch CP, overconfidence K, DoD trade off, Topicality (its)
2NR: ex-im politics, CP

K

The affirmative’s assumption of military infallibility leads to a tunnel-vision that ignores dissonances – makes crisis instability and miscalculation more likely – turns the case
Johnson and Tierney 11 – *PhD in Evolutionary Biology and Political Science, Reader @ Edinburgh in Scotland, **Professor of Political Science @ Swarthmore**
**Dominic, Dominic, “The Rubicon Theory of War: How the Path to Conflict Reaches the Point of No Return,” International Security, 36.1, Muse**
**Actors in an implemental ..positive illusions."40**

**The alternative is to reject the affirmative’s implemental thinking in favor or military deliberation**
**Johnson and Tierney 11 – *PhD in Evolutionary Biology and Political Science, Reader @ Edinburgh in Scotland,** Professor of Political Science @ Swarthmore
Dominic, Dominic, “The Rubicon Theory of War: How the Path to Conflict Reaches the Point of No Return,” International Security, 36.1, Muse
We predict that overconfidence …apparent need to do so.

T

A. Interpretation - “its” means belonging to
Encarta, 9 (Encarta World English Dictionary, http://encarta.msn.com/encnet/features/dictionary/DictionaryResults.aspx?refid=1861622735)
its [ its ]
adjective Definition: indicating possession: used to indicate that something belongs or relates to something
The park changed its policy.

B. The Affirmative violates this by increasing the space exploration through a different government from the United States.

C. Vote Negative because this explodes the topic by allowing for affs to enter space through over 180 governments as well as international bodies. This makes neg debate impossible which destroys fairness and clash because we do not discuss the merits of going into space through the United States Government.
DA


( ) F-35 Saved Now but Will Still Be Targeted

Martinez 1/5/12 (Luis, pg. http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/01/new-pentagon-strategy-calls-for-leaner-but-still-dominant-military/)

Another way …budget savings.

DOD In charge of ramos

CDI 2 (Center for defense information, pg. http://www.cdi.org/missile-defense/ramos.cfm)

In 1998, BMDO …
Anti-ballistic Missile (ABM) Treaty.


( ) Specifically, It Trades Off with Funding for the F-35

Dinerman 6 (Taylor, February 27, The Space Review, pg. http://www.thespacereview.com/article/565/1)

It’s time to …elements are getting.






( ) F-35 Key to US-Japan Relations

Azuma 11 (Andrew, August 2, pg. http://blog.american.com/2011/08/bolstering-japans-defenses-with-f-35s/)

This December, …and tactical cooperation.


A strong US-Japanese alliance prevents multiple nuclear wars
Armitage 00
Richard Armitage, Deputy Secretary of State, 10-11-00, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/press/Spelreprts/SRJAPAN.HTM “The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership”, ACC: 9.11.04, p. online.
Major war in Europe …global security strategy.






CP 1nc
Text: the United States federal government’s Executive should eliminate its policy of launch on warning in favor of a policy of retaliatory launch only after detonation. We can clarify.

Solves accidents and would be reciprocated
Phillips and Starr 6
Alan Phillips is a retired physicist and physician who did radar research for the British army. Steven Starr trained in nuclear engineering and now works as a medical technologist. Peace Magazine Jul-Sep 2006, page 14, Change "Launch on Warning" Policy, http://archive.peacemagazine.org/v22n3p14.htm
The danger inherent …there had been no attack.



DA

Ex-im extension will pass
Crumbo 4-11
Chuck, “Export-Import Bank stirs debate among S.C. congressmen,” http://www.charlestonbusiness.com/news/43445-export-import-bank-stirs-debate-among-s-c-congressmen?rss=0
A bill to …that opened last summer.

But, the debate will go down to the wire
Herald 4-5
“Don't imperil U.S. exports,” http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20120405/OPINION01/704059975
The latest bout of …down to a white-knuckle deadline.



This directly tradesoff with other legislation
Carr 2
Thomas, Analyst in American National Government, Congressional Research Service, Senate of the United States, Google Book
The legislative process …in confronting a filibuster.
Quick action is key to the economy
Ezell 12 – Senior Analyst with the Information Technology and Innovation Foundation
Stephen, “Let The Ex-Im Bank Do Its Job Supporting U.S. Exporters,” 1-20, http://www.innovationpolicy.org/let-the-ex-im-bank-do-its-job-supporting-us-e
While some have …thousands of U.S. jobs depend on it.

Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the report …a more dog-eat-dog world.

False alarms
No risk of accidental war
Quinlan, 9
[Michael, Former Permanent Under-Sec. State – UK Ministry of Defense, “Thinking about Nuclear Weapons: Principles, Problems, Prospects”, p. 63-69]
Even if initial nuclear ….
belongs to science fiction.


Neither side responds to false warnings
Blair 4
Bruce Blair is President of the Center for Defense Information in Washington D.C., and a former Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, “The Logic of Intelligence Failure”, Center for Defense Information, 3/7, http://www.cdi.org/blair/logic.cfm.
There is an offsetting factor …initial disbelief until the harsh reality sank in.

You should assign zero probability to US-Russia war – multiple checks
Graham 7
Thomas Graham, senior advisor on Russia in the US National Security Council staff 2002-2007, September 2007, "Russia in Global Affairs” July - September 2007, The Dialectics of Strength and Weakness.
An astute historian of Russia, …long-term relations with Russia.


coop
Nuclear Risk Reduction Center solves miscalc
NY Daily News 4/28
http://india.nydailynews.com/business/e89041cba99467d1c3591f65a4a966e9/us-russia-close-to-cyber-conflict-preventing-agreement
Washington, April 28 — The US …

both countries as saying.

( ) US Cooperating with Russia Now
Stent, professor of government @ Georgetown, 4/19/12 (Angela, pg. http://www.carnegieendowment.org/files/041912_transcript_russia21.pdf)
Well, thank you, Jim. …situation is stable enough.

( ) US Cooperating with russia on Nuclear accidents now- 1ac author

Ford 10 [Christopher, Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute in Washington, D.C., former U.S. Special Representative for Nuclear Nonproliferation and Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, reserve intelligence officer in the U.S. Navy, “Playing for Time on the Edge of the Apocalypse: Maximizing Decision Time for Nuclear Leaders,” http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Decision%20Time%20Final%20for%20Print.pdf]

Since 1987, …belligerence vis-à-vis Russia.

Relations resilient – mutual interests
Bernama 12-9
http://www.bernama.com/bernama/v5/newsindex.php?id=632978
The White House said …and those common interests."
Solvency
Space Warfare Unlikely- Countries Will Keep Space Isolated from Any Conflict
Hoey 10 (Matthew, July 4, pg. http://www.kurzweilai.net/global-space-warfare-technologies-influences-trends-and-the-road-ahead)
By 2025, space ….air, sea, ground and cyberspace.

Disease spread is hype
Lind 11
Michael, policy director of the New America Foundation's Economic Growth Program and author of The American Way of Strategy, So Long, Chicken Little, Foreign Affairs, Proquest
There's nothing …Chicken Little scares.



Warming doesn’t risk extinction – historical resilience to environmental crises
Fettweis 11
Christopher, Professor of Political Science @ Tulane, Dangerous Times?: The International Politics of Great Power Peace, pg. 127-128
It should go …all other forms, be all but obsolete.




=Round 4= 
1AC-- same as TOC round 1

2AC and 1AR cards
S
Efficiency
Lin 1
James, Professor of Telecommunication @ Illinois, SPSS, WPT, and Biological Implications, http://www.ece.utah.edu/~ece3300/lectures/EReserve/Space%20Solar-Power%20Station,%20Lin.pdf
Nevertheless, most of the concepts essential for SPS-WPT operation have been successfully demonstrated. The accomplishments, to date, include the demonstration of point-to-point WPT: 30 kW of microwaves beamed over a distance of one mile to a receiving antenna; transmission of an 800 W microwave beam from a rocket to a free-flying satellite in space; and microwave-to-dc conversion efficiency of 82% or higher by the rectenna.




AT: JWST trade off
2AC

Non-unique: 9 large mission extensions in the squo
MSNBC 4-10
(Leone, Dan, April 10, 2012, “NASA extends 9 space observatory missions”, MSNBC, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47007006/ns/technology_and_science-space/)
In addition …
Astrophysics Division.


No internal link—commercial crew would be cut
Space News 3-29
(Leone, Dan, March 29, 2012, “Sen. Mikulski Questions NASA Commercial Crew Priority”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/120329-mikulski-questions-commercial-priority.html)
Hutchison, ….
over that issue.


Webb fails—inevitable delays and lack of organization
Clark 11. BY STEPHEN CLARK. SPACEFLIGHT NOW House panel proposes killing Hubble telescope successor Posted: July 6, 2011. http://spaceflightnow.com/news/n1107/06jwst/

Legislators seeking …spacecraft itself.

2ac Launches DA – Ozone


SPS solves debris
Grey 2k
Jerry, Director of AIAA, Federal News Service, Congressional Testimony, 9-7-2000, Lexis
The AIAA assessment …and other space regions.


Nitrous oxide collapses the ozone
Peter Spotts, Christian Science Staff, 8-27-2009, “The next major threat to the ozone layer: nitrous oxide,” Christian Science Monitor, http://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/2009/0827/the-next-major-threat-to-the-ozone-layer-nitrous-oxide
A colorless, …Montreal Protocol.

ALICE solves
Science 2.0
“ALICE: Environmentally-Friendly Rocket Propellant,” http://www.science20.com/news_articles/alice_environmentallyfriendly_rocket_propellant
Going green is big, …locations at high cost."

Space launches don’t disrupt the ozone
NASA 8
NASA, 2-24-2008, Federal Government agency dedicated to space policy, “Space Shuttle and International Space Station,” NASA Kennedy Space Center Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.nasa.gov/centers/kennedy/about/information/shuttle_faq.html
Q. Is it true …be inconsequential.

Space tourism guarantees ozone depletion
Anne Minard, National Geographic Researcher, 4-14-2009, “Rocket Launches Damage Ozone Layer, Study Says,” National Geographic News, http://news.nationalgeographic.com/news/2009/04/090414-rockets-ozone.html
Increased …ozone layer.


Top scholars agree that there is little risk to the ozone
Ross and Zittel 7 – Both PhDs
Martin Ross, PhD from UCLA in Earth and Planetary Sciences, and Paul Zittel, PhD in Physical Chemistory, 6-2007, “Rockets and the Ozone Layer,” AeroSpace, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2000/01.html
RISO represents …investment for all interested parties.

Plan is a net-ozone saver
Martin et al 11 – Lt. Col. in the USAF
Harold Martin, et al, “Space Based Solar Power” Industry and Technology Assessment, Scholar
Wireless energy …around 120.


CP
Perm do both

Links to trade off—their foust ev says any sci project
Comparatively the most efficient
Hsu 10
(Hsu, Feng, PhD in engineering and former head of NASA-MIT risk decision making group with over 90 publications, July 2010, “NewSpace 2010 Space Solar Power Panel”, http://www.spacevidcast.com/2010/07/27/newspace-2010-space-solar-power/)
According to ….about 1% efficiency.


Perm do both

CP links to NB

SSP solves all energy needs
Hopkins 10
(Hopkins, Mark, BS from Cal Tech and MA in Economics from Harvard and former president of the Harvard-Radcliffe Committee for a Space Economy, November 4, 2010, Kalam-NSS Energy Initiative Press Conference, http://www.nss.org/news/releases/pc20101104.html)
Let’s look at some of …the foreseeable future.

SSP solves water wars
U.S. led SSP is vital to solving water wars – risks extinction
Schwab 5 – PhD Candidate @ Hawaii, director of the Homeplanet Defense Institute
Martin, Homeplanet Defense: Strategic Thought for a World in Crisis, chapter 5
The protracted crisis …in Israel/Palestine.
SSP solves space nukes (0:25)
Space nukes coming now – lead to extinction
Grossman 8-10 – Professor @ College of New York
Karl, “Despite Solar Options, NASA-Nuclear Alliance Continues Plutonium-Powered Missions,” Truth Out, http://www.truth-out.org/despite-solar-options-nasa-nuclear-alliance-continues-plutonium-powered-missions/1312560708
What is the National Aeronautics …end the space program.

**AT: cosmopolitanism**
2AC Issac
The aff should win if our representations and material change are good

Universal rejection of nationalism leads to tunnel vision
Issac, 02—Professor of Political Science at Indiana-Bloomington, Director of the Center for the Study of Democracy and Public Life, PhD from Yale (Jeffery C., Dissent Magazine, Vol. 49, Iss. 2, “Ends, Means, and Politics,” p. Proquest)
As a result, the …political effectiveness.

AT: Epistemology
Even incomplete knowledge is sufficient – specificity is key
Kratochwil 8 – professor of international relations – European University Institute
Friedrich, “The Puzzles of Politics,” pg. 200-213
The lesson seems …analytical treatment.


Representations of sustainability and space-environmentalism offer a sharp break from Cold War frontierism – creates a locus of support that encourages peaceful space policy
Delgado 11 – Fellow @ Space Policy Institute
Laura, 2011, “When inspiration fails to inspire: A change of strategy for the US space program,” Space Policy, Science Direct
The “narrow …something else.





Plan leads to space cooperation
Charania 2 - SpaceWorks Engineering
Positioning SSP as the next logical step after the ISS, http://www.sei.aero/eng/papers/uploads/archive/IAC-02-R.L09.pdf
SSP in terms of an …alliance of supporters.



***1AR
Ozone is as bad as it’s ever been
William Marsden, 4-24-2012, “Climate change is reducing Arctic Ocean biodiversity,” Canada, http://www.canada.com/Climate+change+reducing+Arctic+Ocean+biodiversity+study/6512578/story.html
Scientists …ozone depletion.
LASERS WORK

That’s enough because the Germans have the same laser
Pultarova 12
Tereza, “DLR Demonstrates Space Debris Location by Laser,” http://www.spacesafetymagazine.com/2012/02/13/dlr-demonstrates-space-debris-location-laser/
For the first time in …flight would be possible.


Beaming Key

Beaming k/t our heg internal- independently turns US EU
Mahan 7 – Leader @ SBSP Advocacy
Rob Mahan, Team Leader for Citizens for Space Based Solar Power, 2007, “Citizens for Space Based Solar Power,” http://c-sbsp.org/home/
Space-based solar …allies once again.”


Rels High


Relations high – cooperating over warming
Batten ’12
[“New Opportunities to Reinforce US-EU Cooperation on Climate Change and Development” 3/6,
Kit, Global Climate Change Coordinator, US Agency for International Development
http://www.friendsofeurope.org/Contentnavigation/Library/Libraryoverview/tabid/1186/articleType/ArticleView/articleId/3058/New-Opportunities-to-Reinforce-USEU-Cooperation-on-Climate-Change-and-Development.aspx]
If left unabated, …forest degradation (REDD+).



Science leadership not key to soft power – their evidence mistakes correlations of cooperation with a causality
Dickson,’09 [David, Direction Science & Development Network. June 2, 2009, “Science diplomacy: the case for caution”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new- frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009, SM]

One of the frustrations …clearly exposed.


- Desalination Extensions

SSP Solves
Tobiska 10 – PhD in Aerospace Engineering Sciences
Kent Tobiska, PhD in Aerospace Engineering Sciences, President and Chief Scientist Space Environment Technologies, 12-2010, “Vision for Producing Fresh Water Using Space Power,” Online Journal of Space Communication, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/tobiska.html
An escalating climate crisis …the 21st Century.



=Round 5= 

=Round 6 sounding rocket program 1AC= 
1ac
The United States federal government should greatly expand the number of suborbital sounding rocket launches into the ionosphere.
1ac Advantage – Ionosphere

Solar storms coming – consensus of experts agree – tanks electric grid
Franks 11 - serves on the Judiciary Committee and the Armed Services Committee
Trent, Testimony by Congressman Trent Franks to the Energy and Power Subcommittee, http://republicans.energycommerce.house.gov/Media/file/Hearings/Energy/053111/Franks.pdf
Catalyzed by …altering consequences.

Although we have simple predictive capabilities, we are still clueless as to which flares will cause real damage
Kappenmann 12 – Leading expert on solar storms, frequently testifies before Congress and advises U.S. government panels on the topic
John, “A Perfect Storm of Planetary Proportions,” IEEE Spectrum, http://spectrum.ieee.org/energy/the-smarter-grid/a-perfect-storm-of-planetary-proportions/0
Unfortunately for ..[see illustration, "Worse and Worst"].’


Time frame is short
Chow 10 – Space analyst @ MSNBC
Denise, Space reporter for MSNBC "Solar Flare Activity Continues to Increase - Technology & Science - Space - Space.com - Msnbc.com." Msnbc.com - Breaking News, Science and Tech News, World News, US News, Local News- Msnbc.com, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/38310467/ns/technology_and_science-space/t/solar-flare-activity-continues-increase/
Streams of charged …of solar activity.

It’s an inevitability – takes out nuclear power plants
Goldes 11 – MA @ Brandeis and San Francisco State
Mark Goldes Former Research Fellow at Brandeis University is Founder of the Aesop Institute. Formerly Senior Director of the Berlin Corridor control radar in Germanyfor US Air Force SOLAR MEGASTORMS can GENERATE a GLOBAL NUCLEAR NIGHTMARE http://www.opednews.com/articles/SOLAR-MEGASTORMS-can-GENER-by-Mark-Goldes-111119-448.html
A map of the USA on …minimize the damage.

It’s not scaremongering, we aren’t prepared and new predictions capabilities are key
Brooks 9 – PhD in Quantum Physics
Michael, “Space storm alert: 90 seconds from Catastrophe,” Broadband Grants, http://www.ntia.doc.gov/legacy/broadbandgrants/comments/7927.pdf
The incursion ….disaster," Kappenman says.

Early warning is key to grid protection
Fountain 10 – Science Reporter @ Times
Solar Storm Risks Bring Disaster Plans By HENRY FOUNTAIN NYT Reporter Published: November 16, 2010 http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/17/business/energy-environment/17GRID.html?pagewanted=all
With it, he …a long blackout.

The impact is the same as a full-scale nuclear war between the United States and Russia
Goldes 11 – MA @ Brandeis and San Francisco State
Mark Goldes Former Research Fellow at Brandeis University is Founder of the Aesop Institute. Formerly Senior Director of the Berlin Corridor control radar in Germanyfor US Air Force SOLAR MEGASTORMS can GENERATE a GLOBAL NUCLEAR NIGHTMARE http://www.opednews.com/articles/SOLAR-MEGASTORMS-can-GENER-by-Mark-Goldes-111119-448.html
We face a severe …should be of concern.

Even without nuclear plant melt downs grid transformer collapse would kill millions and lead to war
Hecht 11 – Editor in Chief @ 21st Century Magazine
Laurence, Solar Storm Threatening Power Grids – Yet no Action Taken to Implement Defences, http://oilprice.com/Energy/Energy-General/Solar-Storm-Threatening-Power-Grids-%E2%80%93-Yet-no-Action-Taken-to-Implement-Defences.html
A known …into chaos.

The plan substantially improves heliophsyics
SSB 9 – Space Studies Board, component of the National Academy of Sciences
A Performance Assessment of NASA's Heliophysics Program National Academy of Science, p. 32-33 "A Performance Assessment of NASA's Heliophysics Program." The National Academies Press, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12608
Background: Sounding …objectives of universities.

This makes solar predictions effective change
Martin et al 9 - *Professor of Astrophysics @ Cal-Tech
Christopher, “Reinvigorating the Astrophysics Sounding Rocket Program: Strategic Investment in the Future of Space Astronomy,” Position paper prepared by the NASA Astrophysics Sounding Rocket Assessment Team, Scholar
Sounding …many new directions.


In situ measurements are vital to understanding solar charges in the ionosphere
Seibert 6 – PhD, former Head of Microgravity and Space Station Utilisation Department
Dr. G. Seibert, ESA-ESTEC, NL-2200, Researchhttp://www.esa.int/esapub/hsr/HSR_38.pdf
There are two …recent decades.

Mapping of the ionosphere is key to accurate space weather warnings
CST 5
Center for Strategy and Technology, SPACE WEATHER SUPPORT FOR COMMUNICATIONS, http://csat.au.af.mil/2020/papers/app-g.pdf.
The frequently …80-100 percent.

1ac Advantage – NASA


We’ll isolate three scenarios –
First – Agriculture

NASA space science is key to sustainable agricultural productivity
Norwood 2k – PhD in theoretical and applied mathematics
Robert, Administrator involved in editing and compiling NASA Spinoff 2000, Office of Aerospace Technology, http://er.jsc.nasa.gov/seh/spin00.pdf
In the decade ..development of Earth.

This is necessary, because food demand is set to outpace production
FAO 9 – Expert Forum @ the Food and Agricultural Organization of the UN
Global Agriculture towards 2050, http://www.fao.org/fileadmin/templates/wsfs/docs/Issues_papers/HLEF2050_Global_Agriculture.pdf
World population …nutrition security.

These mass starvations make global war inevitable
Brown 9 – Founder of Worldwatch and EPI
Lester R, founder of the Worldwatch Institute and the Earth Policy Institute “Can Food Shortages Bring Down Civilization?” Scientific American, May
The biggest …civilization itself.

Statistical analysis proves food shortages leads to conflict
Messer 1 – Professor of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University
Ellen Messer, Marc J. Cohen, Special Assistant to the Director General at the International Food Policy Research Institute & Thomas Marchione, Nutrition Advisor at the Bureau for Humanitarian Response, U.S. Agency for International Development , “CONFLICT: A CAUSE AND EFFECT OF HUNGER,” ECSP REPORT • ISSUE 7
Econometric studies …. for government appeals to ethnic hatred.

Second – benign leadership
Braun 11 – Professor of Space Tech @ Georgia Tech, Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Astronautics in 1996 from Stanford University
Bobby, September, “Technology Investment Critical for NASA, Nation,” http://www.spacenews.com/commentaries/110906-tech-investment-critical-nasa-nation.html
American technological …in the world.

Benign leadership solves every global problem
Jervis 9
Robert, professor of international politics at Columbia University, Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective, World Politics, Muse
To say that ….leadership is benign. [End Page 211

Third – Innovation
Larsen 12 – Citing NASA’s chief technologist and a CEO of a small business
Dave, “NASA funding local research, helping create jobs,” Dayton DN, Lexis
“We do invest …find anywhere else.”

New innovation is key to productivity and speedy growth
NEC 11
A Strategy for American Innovation: Driving Towards Sustainable Growth and Quality Jobs
http://www.whitehouse.gov/administration/eop/nec/StrategyforAmericanInnovation
Fundamentally, innovation … of a sugar cube.

That goes global
Wilson 8 – Former CEO, member of McDonnell Douglas Astronautics Co.
JR, “Space Program Benefits: NASA’s Positive Impact on Society,” http://www.nasa.gov/50th/50th_magazine/benefits.html
As famed …but worldwide.

Economic decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9
Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf
Increased Potential for Global Conflict
Of course, the …
dog-eat-dog world.


The plan solves –
Funding for sounding rockets has recently increased, but it is insufficient – a consistent, substantial and stable commitment from NASA is vital to maintaining a pipeline of space scienc
Conde 11 – Professor of Physics @ Alaska-Fairbanks, PhD in Physics, 30+ peer-reviewed articles in the field
Mark, “Constructively growing the sounding rocket program: A technology development line of sounding rocket launches,” Scholar
Executive Summary: …technology development.


Only sounding rockets create productive scientific growth:
SSB 10
Space Studies Board, “REVITALIZING NASA’S SUBORBITAL PROGRAM ADVANCING SCIENCE, DRIVING INNOVATION, AND DEVELOPING A WORKFORCE Committee on NASA’s Suborbital Research Capabilities Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES,” National Academies Press, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12862&page=R1
The sounding …the experience.

Second – the plan is personal and hands-on – teaches management skills
SSB 10
Space Studies Board, “REVITALIZING NASA’S SUBORBITAL PROGRAM ADVANCING SCIENCE, DRIVING INNOVATION, AND DEVELOPING A WORKFORCE Committee on NASA’s Suborbital Research Capabilities Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES,” National Academies Press, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12862&page=R1
Through review …space endeavors.

Third – a strong and stable commitment attracts students to NASA
USRA 7
Universities Space Research Association, “Sustain American Excellence in the Aerospace Sciences with Increased NASA Funding for Hands-On Training of Tomorrow’s Space Scientists,” http://www.usra.edu/galleries/ipc_files/training.pdf
There is a ….developing skills.

No other program solves
Martin et al 9 - *Professor of Astrophysics @ Cal-Tech
Christopher, “Reinvigorating the Astrophysics Sounding Rocket Program: Strategic Investment in the Future of Space Astronomy,” Position paper prepared by the NASA Astrophysics Sounding Rocket Assessment Team, Scholar
Executive Summary - The …Orbital Sounding Rockets.



2AC CITES


2AC ASPEC

***Be sure to answer any cheater argument like: no solvevncy, not resolved, USFG doesn’t exist, etc.***

We meet – no component of the USFG does not do the plan – it’s just a question of if action is required

The mandate of the plan specifies – only NASA can do it
Helio Budget 12
Heliophysics FY 2012 Budget Request, http://www.govbudgets.com/pdfs/2012/Science/Heliophysics/Heliophysics_Research.pdf
The Research Range effort supports NASA's only test range, located at Wallops Flight Facility, for launch of suborbital and orbital vehicles, supporting launch operations, and tracking, telemetry and command (TT&C) capabilities. The Wallops Research Range also supports a mobile TT&C capability to support launches safely from a number of worldwide launch sites. The NASA Research Range is one of the few ranges in the Nation to offer a mobile capability. The range maintains it own airspace and supports a wide variety of small launch vehicles, suborbital missions, and airborne missions utilizing non-FAA-certified vehicles, such as unmanned aircraft systems.

Doesn’t require all 3 branches
Finnegan 7
Legal filing, AMENDED AND RESTATED RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, http://www.secinfo.com/d11MXs.v2yf4.d.htm
“United States Federal Government” means the government of the United States of America, and any body or entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of the government of the United States of America. For avoidance of doubt, this definition includes, without limitation, agencies of the government of the United States of America that are subject to the Federal Assignment of Claims Act.

Counter-interp – USFG is enough – answers the question of the resolution

Overspecification is worse – Leads to small agency affs, which moots core generics

Agent PICs are bad – skirt topic specific education – focus on minute and procedural changes

C-x checks – it’s sufficient to prepare 1nc strategy

Not a voting issue – at worst the neg wins links or competition, not a ballot

2ac AT: T – Human

Counter-interp – exploration is investigation by spacecraft – we meet
Encyclopedia Britannica 95 	
http://www.uv.es/EBRIT/macro/macro_5002_27_23.html
Space exploration may be defined as the investigation, by means of spacecraft, of all the reaches of the universe beyond the atmosphere of the Earth. Spacecraft, vehicles that operate above the Earth's atmosphere, include sounding rockets, Earth satellites, and lunar, planetary, and deep space probes.

Broad definitions of exploration are good
Lester and Robinson 9 Daniel F. Lester, Michael Robinson, Department of Astronomy C1400, University of Texas, Austin, TX 78712, USA b Hillyer College, University of Hartford, Visiions of Exploration, Space Policy 25 (2009), p. 239  LS
In truth, the ambiguity of the term ‘‘exploration’’ has certain advantages, particularly from the perspective of funding and policy making. Because funding of NASA budgets requires broad agreement in Congress, the fuzziness of exploration often avoids triggering debates that would weaken political support. ‘‘In the political realm, it’s not desirable to have too precise a definition’’, according to Scott Hubbard, Stanford Professor of Engineering and Former Director of NASA Ames Research Center, with respect to exploration. Within this environment, explains Hubbard, defining exploration too narrowly ‘‘is not without some peril’’. Ian Pryke, Senior Fellow at George Mason University and Former Head of the European Space Agency’s Washington Office, speaks in similar terms about the word. ‘‘A little bit of constructive ambiguity never hurts.’’ [19]. 

Counter-interp – development is science
Weeks 04 -- E. E. Weeks currently lectures at Northern Arizona University in Flagstaff, Arizona in the US, and is writing a dissertation entitled The Politics of Space Law, in a Post Cold War Era. Weeks has published several articles and presented several papers at international conferences. After completing a Juris Doctors degree in Law from the University of Missouri-Columbia in 1987, Weeks worked in a number of laws firms and corporations performing legal research, he is the author of  the “Outsiders' Guide to Understanding Outer Space Development” (E. E. Weeks, 2004, www.qpg.com/custom/1066021/powerpoint2.ppt)

Outer space development means different things to different people, and this changes over time. It can mean:
	space exploration, studying planets, moons and stars, and entering into outer space through either robotic or manned (human) missions
	advancements in biological and other sciences and technology, and discoveries and spin off benefits
	satellite telecommunications – cell phones, the  Internet and cable television
	remote sensing, Global Positioning Systems (GPS), visual imagery, mapping or meteorology satellites
	space transportation vehicles, spaceports, launch services and old versus new space vehicles
	space tourism, adventure travel, joyrides, parabolic flights, suborbital flights, short stays in low earth or geostationary orbit in orbital hotels
	space settlement, space colonization, long stays in artificial, closed-ecology human space habitats in free orbit powered by solar power
	mining and extracting minerals from asteroids, The Moon and Mars such as gold, platinum, magnesium, calcium, iron and many others
	The search, discovery and communication with extraterrestrial intelligence 

We meet
McCandliss 9  - PhD, Principal Research Scientist with the  Henry A. Rowland Department of  Physics and Astronomy at The Johns  Hopkins University
Chemical Propulsion Information Analysis Center Bulletin “Space Astronomy, Sounding Rockets, and Closing the Gap in Low-Cost Access to Space”  March 2009 http://www.pha.jhu.edu/~stephan/sciencepolicy/cpi.pdf  
Unfortunately, as of late, the launch  rate for sounding rockets in all disciplines, astrophysics (Fig. 2), heliophysics, and space plasma physics,  has fallen to pre-1960s rates because  of the reduced number of launch  groups that NASA has been able to  support.  Consequently, the pipeline  of science, technology, and workforce  development required in the long term  to maintain a competitive spacefaring  community is at risk (c.f. the National Academies Press Report entitled,  “Rising Above the Gathering Storm:  Energizing and Employing America  for a Brighter Economic Future,” by  Augustine et al.).  The reductions have been brought on in  part by the extreme expense of launching risk-intolerant orbital missions.

Prefer our interpretation
1 – They conflate “of” and “in” 
Bockstiegel 95 
Ph D., Directitor of the Institute of Air and Space Law, Chairman of the Space Law Committee of the International Law Association; Chairman of Council of the National German Space Agency (Dr. Karl-Heinz, 1995, “Research and invention in outer space: liability and intellectual property rights” pg 4
The official title of the Outer Space Treaty (‘OST’) mentions both exploration and use of outer space as the two ‘activities of States’ which one has to take into account and which are therefore covered by the Outer Space Treaty. The same pair of terms appears again in the Preamble as well as further articles such as Article I and Article III of the Treaty. Other articles and other space treaties either take up only one of these two terms or use a general terms such as ‘activities in outer space’ (Art. VI, OST) or generally deal with ‘objects launched into outer space’ (Art. VII, Art. VIII, OST and the Registration Convention) or ‘space objects’ (Liability Convention) or finally ‘activities of States on the Moon and other celestial bodies’ (Moon Treaty). At first sight the distinction between exploration and use may seem sufficiently clear. Indeed in connection with most space activities there may be little doubt which of these two terms is applicable. First doubts appear, however, because the Outer Space Treaty speaks of exploration ‘of outer space’. This wording could be interpreted to mean that space must be the object of exploration. The consequence would be that the great part of research which has to take place ‘in space’ in view of the specific physical conditions there, but which has as its object specific materials, would not be covered and might only be considered as ‘use’ of space.

Counter-interp – “of” includes separation
Dictionary.com No Date
–preposition 1. (used to indicate distance or direction from, separation, deprivation, etc.): within a mile of the church; south of Omaha; to be robbed of one's money. 2. (used to indicate derivation, origin, or source): a man of good family; the plays of Shakespeare; a piece of cake. 3. (used to indicate cause, motive, occasion, or reason): to die of hunger. 4. (used to indicate material, component parts, substance, or contents): a dress of silk; an apartment of three rooms; a book of poems; a package of cheese. 5. (used to indicate apposition or identity): Is that idiot of a salesman calling again?

2 – They don’t solve limits – affs could just add one human to the same project

3 – Application of land-based contexts are absurd
Lester and Robinson 9 –*Ph. D.  Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE AND ** assistant professor of history at the University of Hartsford. His teaching and research fields include the history of exploration, history of American culture and science, and the history of globalization  (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” Space Policy Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243, Science Direct)
The word ‘‘exploration’’ threads its way through every discussion of human space flight and often headlines national policy statements about the US space agency. Yet this concept, so rooted in our culture, remains remarkably ill-defined. In this paper, we examine various presumptions implicit in the term and its ramifications for federally supported space endeavors. We argue that historical examples of exploration, widely used by policy makers, often make poor models for contemporary space travel. In particular, historical precedents of exploration set up a land-biased view of discovery, a restriction which impedes full expression of the Vision for Space Exploration and its possible scientific returns. These same precedents also set up a view of discovery that is biased toward in situ human presence, a view that modern technology is rendering increasingly absurd.

Impact assessment – only vote on topicality if it has made it impossible to be negative, but not just slightly more difficult.  Otherwise the cult of competing interpretations encourages a race-to-the-bottom.

AT: ex im
Won’t pass – 
Kasting, 4/21 [Bruce Kasting, 4/21/12, http://articles.businessinsider.com/2012-04-21/politics/31377888_1_debt-limit-boeing-subsidies]
The Administration has requested a 40% increase in Exim’s borrowing authority. This would keep Exim afloat until 2015. The Republicans, led by Eric Cantor, have made a counter proposal to increase the debt limit by only $13 Billion. Cantor’s plan would have Exim run out of money in less than one year. So there is a fight brewing on this issue. It is the same fight that has been going on over every economic issue. Conservatives want to cut back on big programs, liberals want to expand them as fast as possible. Some on the Pro side include the Administration, big exporters like Boeing, liberals and their press: There are many voices on the Con side: Central to the issues at Exim is Boeing. From 2005 to 2010 Exim financed 634 Boeing aircraft. In 2011 it lent foreign airlines another $11.4B. This lending has surely helped Boeing, but it’s killing the domestic air carriers which have to compete on overseas routes. Delta Airlines has sued Exim over its lending to Air India. The lawsuit has to be resolved as part of the extension of the debt limit. Liberal guys, like Chuck Schumer have been talking to Delta. The proposal is to offset the competitive disadvantage that Exim creates, with new subsidies for the airlines. Subsidies that create inequities that are fixed with more subsidies is bad government. I can’t see the Delta Airlines “fix” getting inked without a large price tag. That cost will be the Republicans insisting that any subsidies be “paid” for with other cuts. A pissing match appears to be in the offing. When S&P downgraded the USA, it pointed at political gridlock and the inability of D.C. to agree to confront issues as the principal reason for the downgrade. The fight over Exim is a good example of that gridlock.

No risk of naval power nor hegemony loss

a) Numerical and capability superiority 
Farley 7 – Professor of Diplomacy @ UK
Robert Farley, assistant professor at the Patterson School of Diplomacy and International Commerce, University of Kentucky, “The False Decline of the U.S. Navy,” The American Prospect, October 23, 2007, http://prospect.org/article/false-decline-us-navy
The United States Navy currently operates eleven aircraft carriers. The oldest and least capable is faster, one third larger, and carries three times the aircraft of Admiral Kuznetsov, the largest carrier in the Russian Navy. Unlike China’s only aircraft carrier, the former Russian Varyag, American carriers have engines and are capable of self-propulsion. The only carrier in Indian service is fifty years old and a quarter the size of its American counterparts. No navy besides the United States' has more than one aircraft carrier capable of flying modern fixed wing aircraft. The United States enjoyssimilar dominance in surface combat vessels and submarines, operating twenty-two cruisers, fifty destroyers, fifty-five nuclear attack submarines, and ten amphibious assault ships (vessels roughly equivalent to most foreign aircraft carriers). In every category the U.S. Navy combines presumptive numerical superiority with a significant ship-to-ship advantage over any foreign navy. This situation is unlikely to change anytime soon.The French Navy and the Royal Navy will each expand to two aircraft carriers over the next decade. The most ambitious plans ascribed to the People’s Liberation Army Navy call for no more than three aircraft carriers by 2020, and even that strains credulity, given China’s inexperience with carrier operations and the construction of large military vessels. While a crash construction program might conceivably give the Chinese the ability to achieve local dominance (at great cost and for a short time), the United States Navy will continue to dominate the world’s oceans and littorals for at least the next fifty years.
 
 


2ac Consult Russia 

Counterplans that allow the entire plan are a voting issue- otherwise it’s no cost 
1. Unpredictable- infinite number of actors and infinite conditions – impossible for aff to predict
2. Steals the entirety of the aff- we lose 8 minutes of the 1AC as offense 
3. Reading it as a DA solves their offense 

CP doesn’t solve NASA reinvigoration—unstable and uncertain commitments are the failing status quo
Cernan 11 – Commander US Navy
“Testimony by Eugene Cernan: "NASA Human Space Flight Past, Present, and Future: Where Do We Go From Here?",” http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=38492
As a result of these factors, uncertainty and instability abound. Among the thousands of highly educated workers with unique skills developed over generations, once we lose the older, wiser, mature and experienced folks to retirement, who spent in some cases over five decades learning "what they didn't know they didn't know", along with those inspired and enthusiastic young minds of today's generation to other endeavors, inertia takes hold of the downward trend and it is difficult, costly and near impossible to reverse. And those young high school and college students whose dreams were to take their generation back to the moon and beyond are now questioning their plans to seek studies in science, engineering and math in the future. And for those fortunate few still at work within NASA or its contracting team, without a goal or mission, their future is bleak. Under this cloud of uncertainty most are seeking stability for themselves and their families by going elsewhere with their talents. I believe therein is the ongoing risk and challenge this country faces in any potential future development of human space systems. It's important to remember that "technology makes it possible, but people make it happen." Testimony of May 26, 2010: Very little if anything has changed my assessment of the Administration's space policy since my testimony before this Committee over a year ago. I recounted the words of my colleagues and myself in describing the Administration's plan for the future of Space Exploration - "Devastating", "Slide to mediocrity", "Third-rate stature", "Mission to nowhere." Although with the SLS System we will provide the foundation for designing "missions to somewhere" - they have yet to be defined. So today I stand behind my testimony and convictions of sixteen months ago. Nowhere did I find then nor do I find today one penny in the FY2011 budget proposal in support of Space Exploration. Although I do believe and hope that someday they will succeed, I still assess that those entrepreneurs in the world of commercial space who continue their claims of being able to put humans in space in little more than three years for something less than $5 billion, today still "don't yet know what they don't know." My statement that "the sole reliance on the Commercial Sector without a concurrent or back-up approach could very well lead to the abandonment of our $100 billion, 25 year investment in the ISS" is now more prophetic than ever. "The space program has never been an entitlement, it's an investment in the future - an investment in technology, jobs, international respect and geo-political leadership, and perhaps most importantly in the inspiration and education of our youth. Those best and brightest minds at NASA and throughout the multitudes of private contractors, large and small, did not join the team to design windmills or redesign gas pedals, but to live their dreams of once again taking us where no man has gone before. If this Administration's agenda continues to override the mandates of Congress, these technicians, engineers, scientists, a generation removed from Apollo, yet re-inspired by the prospect of going back to the moon and on the Mars, will be gone - where I don't know - but gone." Sixteen months later, the absence of a well-defined NASA program has already resulted in the loss of thousands of jobs throughout the aerospace industry. "America's human space flight program has for a half century risen above partisan differences from Eisenhower to Kennedy to the present day. The challenges and accomplishments of the past were those of a nation - never of a political party or of any individual agenda." Proven to be true today by the overwhelming Congressional support and mandates to NASA in support of future space developments. "We are at a cross road. If we abdicate our leadership in space today, not only is human spaceflight and space exploration at risk, but I believe the future of this country and thus the future of our children and grandchildren as well. Now is the time for wiser heads in the Congress of the United States to prevail. Now is the time to overrule this Administration's pledge to mediocrity. Now is the time to be bold, innovative and wise in how we invest in the future of America. Now is the time to re-establish our nation's commitment to excellence."

Perm do the counterplan: 
It’s not severance- certainty and immediacy aren’t mandates of the plan
Should is in the cp text and resolved is just in the resolution 

Russia will say no—

a. inevitable tensions 
Christian Science Monitor, 8 
(“Will US-Russia tensions extend to space?” 8/20/8, http://www.csmonitor.com/Innovation/Tech/2008/0820/will-us-russia-tensions-extend-to-space/(page)/2)
International cooperation in human spaceflight may be facing its toughest test since the cold war. The immediate concern: Will US astronauts be able to ride Russian rockets between 2010, when the last shuttle is retired, and 2015, when the National Aeronautics and Space Administration expects to launch a replacement? Russian spacecraft are how NASA plans to send its astronauts to the International Space Station. But with tensions rising over Russia’s invasion of Georgia and a US-Polish missile deal, some lawmakers and space-policy analysts worry that the US Congress – or Russia itself – could scuttle the plan. If tensions fail to ease over the longer term, the space station could shift from an orbiting laboratory to a geopolitical bargaining chip. The possibility that international tensions could limit US access to the space station for at least five years “is a real concern,” says Ray Williamson, an analyst with the Secure World Foundation, a space-policy think tank in Superior, Colo. But the notion that the US needs an alternative right away is a bit premature, he adds. Proposals range from extending the shuttle program beyond 2010 to cutting a deal with China, which is ramping up its own human spaceflight effort. Each option faces big budgetary or political challenges. Already, Bush administration officials reportedly have suggested that the full range of US-Russian ties need to be reviewed in light of Moscow’s actions in the former Soviet Republic of Georgia. Those tensions appeared to have risen another notch Wednesday when US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and Polish Foreign Minister Radek Sikorski inked a deal under which the US would install antiballistic missiles in northeastern Poland. For the US, the challenge lies in the way the Bush administration crafted its 2004 vision for space exploration. It called for an end to the shuttle program in 2010 and the launch of a replacement, the Ares I and its Orion capsule, by 2015. NASA is working on the Ares I system, along with other major components of its Constellation program, with that deadline firmly in mind. Constellation aims to return humans to the moon by 2020. But that schedule leaves at least a five-year gap with no homegrown way to send astronauts to the space station. The US endured a nearly six-year gap in human spaceflight between the Apollo and shuttle programs. But this time around, the US has a destination in orbit that it has paid big money to build and maintain. NASA Administrator Michael Griffin has called the gap and the need for Russia’s help “unseemly.” To try to narrow the gap, the agency initially set an internal target for launching Ares 1 with its Orion crew capsule in September 2013. But with more-refined cost estimates in hand, and based on an assumption of no new money likely from Congress to support a 2013 deadline, the agency has moved that internal date to September 2014. “The space community has been trying to yell about this for years, but people didn’t pay a lot of attention,” says George Whitesides, executive director of the National Space Society, a space-exploration advocacy group in Washington. “The biggest lesson we should have learned” from the shift from Apollo to the shuttle “is the need to think through the transition between vehicles without gaps.” The first signals about the future may well come from Congress, which is weighing whether to grant NASA a waiver this year from the Iran, North Korea, and Syria Non-Proliferation Act. It did so in 2005 so that NASA could buy astronaut launch services from Russia through 2011. NASA officials have said they need to place their order soon given the lead time the Russians say they to build the new Soyuz capsules NASA would need. Short of holding its nose and granting the waiver, Congress appears to have few options. The US could try to play a China card, notes Vincent Sabathier, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington and a former official with the French space agency CNES. In an online commentary last week, he noted that China doesn’t represent an immediate solution. But Chinese space officials have expressed an interest in participating in the space-station program, he notes. And tighter links between the US and Chinese space programs could represent important confidence-building measures affecting other areas of US-Chinese ties. But such a move would require a profound change in US policy that would be a tough sell, especially at this point in the US political cycle, according to Joan Johnson-Freese, a specialist in international space policy who heads the department of national-security studies at the US Naval War College in Newport, R.I. Thus, if Congress turns its back on a waiver for NASA , “that leaves us in a situation of keeping the shuttle on line,” she says. “Then we’re eating our seed corn once again.” The reason: Unless a new president and Congress give NASA enough money to extend the shuttle program – which already is winding down and likely would require a costly recertification of the remaining shuttles – cash to keep the shuttles running probably would come from money NASA plans to spend on the Constellation program. At the end of the day, “Congress will act pragmatically” and grant the waiver, predicts Peggy Finarelli, a senior fellow at the Center for Aerospace Policy Research at George Mason University in Fairfax., Va. While US-Russian relations appear to be growing more rocky, she doesn’t anticipate the space station becoming a bargaining chip for either country. Hearkening back to the Carter administration’s response to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and its cancellation of science and technology exchanges in protest, she says that the White House could make that move then because “there was nothing there where you had multibillion-dollar programs where you had invested a lot of your future.” Moreover, over the past 10 to 15 years, the two countries’ space programs and even their space-launch industries have become tightly intertwined. “These relations are not so easy to damage,” says Mr. Whitesides. That, he says, gives some cause for hope that the space station will remain a symbol of international cooperation in space, despite sometimes rocky relations between partners on Earth. 



Permutation: do the counterplan, and then do the plan 
Timeframe perms are justified against consult- they introduced the issue of delay into the debate

Permutation: do the plan and do the part of the CP that consults in a world where they agree
The process of conditioning involves two potential outcomes that are fiated by the neg- either they fiat the plan or something that is not the plan. We only permute the act of fiating the plan. If they win that Russia would agree, then the perm solves. If we win that they would say no, case outweighs. 

Perm do the plan and then do the cp


Russian negotiations take too long
Baker and Landler, 10 – White House correspondents for The New York Times
(Peter, Mark, “Delay on Arms Pact Slows Reset of U.S.- Russia Ties” 3/9/10, http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/10/world/europe/10start.html)
WASHINGTON — When President Obama got on the telephone with President Dmitri A. Medvedev of Russia last month, he was under the impression that they were finally close to wrapping up a long-delayed arms control treaty that he had originally expected to sign in December. Related Times Topic: Russia But to Mr. Obama’s surprise, Mr. Medvedev was not ready to sign off on a deal and raised issues that required more discussion, American officials said. As he hung up, the officials said, a frustrated Mr. Obama realized that the two sides were not as close as he had thought and sent negotiators back to the table. The fitful effort to fashion a treaty that would be a signature achievement of his presidency has demonstrated the hurdles Mr. Obama faces in his drive to reset relations with Russia after years of tension. After months of delay and discord, administration officials said, they have learned that when it comes to deal-making with Moscow, nothing is done until it is done, and rarely will it go as smoothly as anticipated. Negotiators are making a fresh effort this week to break the logjam and finish by the end of the month, so they can showcase the new treaty at an international summit meeting on nuclear nonproliferation that Mr. Obama will host in Washington in April. Underscoring his determination to seal the deal, he sent Ellen Tauscher, the under secretary of state for arms control, to Geneva to help resolve remaining differences, and Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton plans to travel to Moscow next week. Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, predicted Tuesday that the treaty could be finished by the end of the month. “We would push for a conclusion in two to three weeks,” Mr. Lavrov said, according to Russian news agencies. “For this, there is every chance.” The White House also expressed cautious optimism as negotiators went back to work in Geneva. “They are working on the last few remaining issues to a new treaty,” said Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary. “We are certainly hopeful that that can get done in short order.” But Mr. Gibbs added that the administration would not rush a bad deal just to get it done before the summit meeting, scheduled for April 12-13. “If it takes, quite frankly, many more weeks past April to get something that we believe is in our best interest,” he said, then the United States would take the extra time. The arms control treaty is part of a complicated diplomatic effort to forge a new relationship with Russia, interlinked with issues like Iran, missile defense and Afghanistan. Mr. Obama had hoped to restore ties with some relatively easier deals that could lead to more trust and deeper cooperation in areas that have long divided the former adversaries. But even the supposedly easy agreements have been hard. The new arms pact was supposed to be a relatively straightforward replacement of the Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty of 1991, known as Start. The administration hoped that a successful negotiation would be a catalyst to a broader and more ambitious round of disarmament talks. Yet when the Start treaty expired in December, the new treaty was still not ready. “This is a marginal no-brainer, and it takes forever and will be a semidifficult ratification fight,” said George Perkovich, a specialist on nonproliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, a research institute in Washington. “This is complicated stuff.” Some administration officials said both sides had been overly optimistic about how quickly they could transform a relationship that had more baggage than they initially figured. “It’s hard for us to learn how to dance together again,” said a senior administration official, who like others was not authorized to speak on the record in the middle of a delicate negotiation. The American officials said the answer might be persistence and patience. One example is an agreement that Mr. Obama and Mr. Medvedev reached in Moscow in July to allow American troops and weapons to fly through Russian airspace en route to Afghanistan. Months later, virtually no flights had flown amid bureaucratic delays.


US-Russia Relations Resilient
Vipperman ’10- Foundation for Russian American Economic Cooperation (July 26, 2010, Carol, Modern Russia, “Broader trade ties as the next step in U.S.-Russia trade relations”, http://www.modernrussia.com/content/broader-trade-ties-next-step-us-russia-trade-relations) 

The U.S.-Russia relationship certainly has been in the news lately with the one year anniversary of the “reset” upon us, likelihood of a new START Treaty, and the recent, highly publicized visit by President Medvedev to the United States. Riding on a surge of good will, the U.S.-Russia relationship was put to the test in July by a spy scandal that had potential to derail this progress. In my mind, the quickness with which this potential setback was resolved affirmed both countries’ commitment to the “reset” in our bilateral relationship. For those of us who care about the U.S. relationship with Russia, this is encouraging. Throughout the last 20+ years it is clear that continuing to develop a strong and durable partnership between Russia and the United States was, and is, important to our mutual long-term regional and global strategic interests.

The CP sends the signal that the US will only expand SRP if ___ agrees—that uncertainty can’t create a stable and innovating workforce, makes the NASA advantage a DA to the CP
Maser 11 – AIIA
Jim, Chair of the Corporate Membership Committee – American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and President – Pratt & Whitney Rocketdyne, “A Review of NASA’s Exploration Program in Transition: Issues for Congress and Industry”, U.S. House Science, Space, and Technology Committee Hearing, 3-30, http://www.prattwhitney.com/media_center/executive_speeches/jim_maser_03-30-2011.asp
The entire space industrial base is currently being downsized with no net gain of jobs. At the same time we are totally unclear as to what might be the correct levels needed to support the government. Designing, developing, testing, and manufacturing the hardware and software to explore space requires highly skilled people with unique knowledge and technical expertise which takes decades to develop. These technical experts cannot be grown overnight, and once they leave the industry, they rarely return. If the U.S. develops a tremendous vision for space exploration five years from now, but the people with these critical skills have not been preserved and developed, that vision will disappear. We need that vision, that commitment, that certainty right now, not five or ten years from now, if we are going to have a credible chance of bringing it to fruition. In addition to difficulties in retaining our current workforce, the uncertainty facing the U.S. space program is already having a negative impact on our industry’s ability to attract new talent from critical science, technology, engineering and mathematics. Young graduates who may have been inspired to follow STEM education plans because of their interest in space and space exploration look at the industry now and see no clear future. This will have implications on the space industrial base for years to come.


TRADE OFF DA 
Space science is declining now—only a risk the plan solves
McCandliss 9 - Professor of Physics @ Johns Hopkins
Dr. Stephan R. McCandliss, Principal Research Scientist with the  Henry A. Rowland Department of  Physics and Astronomy at The Johns  Hopkins University.  Chemical Propulsion Information Analysis Center Bulletin “Space Astronomy, Sounding Rockets, and Closing the Gap in Low-Cost Access to Space”  March 2009 http://www.pha.jhu.edu/~stephan/sciencepolicy/cpi.pdf  
Unfortunately, as of late, the launch rate for sounding rockets in all disciplines, astrophysics (Fig. 2), heliophysics, and space plasma physics, has fallen to pre-1960s rates because  of the reduced number of launch  groups that NASA has been able to  support.  Consequently, the pipeline of science, technology, and workforce development required in the long term  to maintain a competitive spacefaring  community is at risk (c.f. the National Academies Press Report entitled,  “Rising Above the Gathering Storm:  Energizing and Employing America  for a Brighter Economic Future,” by  Augustine et al.).   The reductions have been brought on in part by the extreme expense of launching risk-intolerant orbital missions.


The plan is free—only risk of a turn
SSB 10
Space Studies Board, “REVITALIZING NASA’S SUBORBITAL PROGRAM ADVANCING SCIENCE, DRIVING INNOVATION, AND DEVELOPING A WORKFORCE Committee on NASA’s Suborbital Research Capabilities Space Studies Board Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences NATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES,” National Academies Press, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=12862&page=R1

The SRP uses surplus military motors in the rocket stacks wherever possible, reducing the cost. These decommissioned military motors cannot be sold, but are available at no charge to other government agencies. With appropriate inspection, refurbishment, and outfitting these motors are usable for sounding rockets and have a demonstrated high success rate (>97 percent). The SRP is required to procure commercial rocket motors for the upper stages of some rockets, as no option for utilizing government surplus currently exists.
*SRP = Sounding Rocket Program

If they’re uniqueness is correct and there’s newfound Congressional support and funding for JWST, that’s just a reason why they would cut other programs.

No link—no reason the plan would go through NASA

Non-unique: 9 large mission extensions in the squo
MSNBC 4-10
(Leone, Dan, April 10, 2012,  “NASA extends 9 space observatory missions”, MSNBC, http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/47007006/ns/technology_and_science-space/)
In addition to Kepler and Chandra — which the committee recommended NASA keep in service through 2016 — the other astrophysics missions that have been cleared for continued operations are:
 •the Fermi Gamma-ray Space Telescope, launched in 2008.
 •the Hubble Space Telescope (HST), launched in 1990 but last refurbished in 2009.
 •Planck, a European satellite launched in 2009.
 •Suzaku, a Japanese X-ray astronomy satellite launched in 2005.
 •Swift Gamma-ray Burst Mission, launched in 2004.
 •the Warm Spitzer Space Telescope Mission, which has been operating since 2009 without the coolant that kept its infrared instruments chilled for its first five-and-a-half years in orbit.
 •XMM-Newton, a European X-ray observatory launched in 1999.
"These nine missions comprise an extremely strong ensemble to enter the Senior Review process and we find that all are making very significant scientific contributions," wrote the 12-member committee that conducted the 2012 Senior Review of Operating Missions in the NASA Astrophysics Division.
 

No internal link—commercial crew would be cut
Space News 3-29
(Leone, Dan, March 29, 2012, “Sen. Mikulski Questions NASA Commercial Crew Priority”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/120329-mikulski-questions-commercial-priority.html)
Hutchison, who led the effort to have part of the ISS designated as a U.S. national laboratory, told Bolden that NASA was asking too much money for the Commercial Crew Program and that the agency should shrink the program. 
“NASA is continuing to throw money at too many companies with a hope of flying astronauts,” Hutchison said. “Members of Congress are already coalescing around NASA choosing no more than two companies … If you adhere to three or four, you’re going to go over the budget.” 
NASA wants to spend $830 million annually on the Commercial Crew Program from 2013 through 2017, according to the White House budget request released in February. Proposals were due March 23 for the next phase of the program, which is meant to keep at least two competing systems on track for a crewed orbital demonstration in 2017. 
Sen. Richard Shelby (R-Ala.) blasted NASA’s commercial crew partners as “the future Solyndras of the space industry,” a reference to a solar panel company that went bankrupt last year after receiving a half-billion dollars in U.S. government backing 
“When is this administration going to get the message that the Congress, I believe, is not willing to subsidize so-called commercial vendors at the expense of NASA’s core mission of engineering and exploration?” Shelby asked Bolden. 
Shelby, a senior member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, is a strong supporter of the Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Ala., where the next government-owned heavy-lift rocket, the Space Launch System (SLS), is being developed. 
Shelby, like Hutchison, has criticized NASA for seeking a big increase for commercial crew while slowing spending on SLS and its companion deep-space crew capsule, the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle. 
Hutchison, among the most vocal supporters of SLS and Orion in all of Congress, appeared tired of wrangling with Bolden over that issue. 

Non-unique: new budget and sequestration doom NASA funding
Space News 3-29
(Leone, Dan, March 29, 2012, “Sen. Mikulski Questions NASA Commercial Crew Priority”, Space News, http://www.spacenews.com/policy/120329-mikulski-questions-commercial-priority.html)
 Besides scrutinizing the Commercial Crew Program, Mikulski also asked Bolden whether NASA was formulating a plan to deal with further budget cuts in the form of sequestration — automatic cuts to federal discretionary spending that would take effect in 2013 unless Congress enacts a new deficit-reduction plan. She said NASA’s budget would be cut a further 8 percent if sequestration takes effect. As it stands, the White House is proposing to cut NASA’s nearly $17.8 billion budget by roughly $60 million next year. 








=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]