[[toc]]
=I may have also read stuff on Greenhill RK's wiki.= 
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
Constitutionality AC:

V: Morality
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">a contractarian system that derives principles of mutual agreement from individuals’ self-interest accounts for morality. </span>

Gauthier, David P. //Morals by Agreement//. Oxford: Clarendon, 1986. Print.
"Moral Principals are...for mutual constraint"

THUS THE GOVERNMENT HAS //BOUND ITSELF// TO THE CONSTITUTION.
Jurgen Habermas [University of Frankfurt], “Constitutional Democracy,” Political Theory 29 (trans. William Rehg, 2001), p. 779.
__"__because autonomy must not....without the other."

S: Consistency with with the interpretation of the constiution

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Due process constraints in the Constitution support the resolution.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Cole, law professor at Georgetown University, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Aid of Removal: Due Process Limits on Immigration Detention</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 51 Emory L.J. 1003-1039 (2002), GEORGETOWN LAWFaculty Publications, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Due Process places...followed the attacks."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The Case of </span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">US vs. Salerno</span>//<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> proves the Court supports the resolution</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Cole, law professor at Georgetown University, </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In Aid of Removal: Due Process Limits on Immigration Detention</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 51 Emory L.J. 1003-1039 (2002), GEORGETOWN LAWFaculty Publications, BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">"in upholding the Bail...immediate appellate review."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The decision in US vs.//Yick Wo// proves another example. </span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Louis </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Henkin</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, The Constitution as Compact and as Conscience: Individual Rights Abroad and at ourGates, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 11 (1985), [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol27/iss1/7]], BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The Supreme Court...by the federal government."</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">There is no distinction between citizens and non-citizens</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Louis </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Henkin</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, The Constitution as Compact and as Conscience: Individual Rights Abroad and at ourGates, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 11 (1985), [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol27/iss1/7]], BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The Constiution does not say...retained by the people."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">It is the spirit of the constitution to give non-citizens due process rights.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Louis </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Henkin</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, The Constitution as Compact and as Conscience: Individual Rights Abroad and at ourGates, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 11 (1985), [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol27/iss1/7]], BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The social compact...all human beings."</span>


Next, the constitutional spirit is grounded in natural rights- Due Process is a necessary constitutional right to protect further natural rights-
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Louis </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Henkin</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, The Constitution as Compact and as Conscience: Individual Rights Abroad and at ourGates, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 11 (1985), [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol27/iss1/7]], BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"The Compact recognizes...they antecede it."</span>


And, not giving non-citizens due process rights is inconsistent with our view of equal protection
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Louis </span><span style="font-family: Times;">Henkin</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">, The Constitution as Compact and as Conscience: Individual Rights Abroad and at ourGates, 27 Wm. & Mary L. Rev. 11 (1985), [[http://scholarship.law.wm.edu/wmlr/vol27/iss1/7]], BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"This interpretation of...public school teachers."</span>











==Negative== 
V: morality

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The standard is preserving the first principle of morality defined by Kekes</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">John Kekes, `Ought Implies Can' and Two Kinds of Morality, he Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 34, No. 137 (Oct., 1984), pp. 459-467</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Wiley-Blackwell</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;"> for </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The Philosophical Quarterly, BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">"a person is...quick on the uptake."</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">First, it is the only way to make moral claims in certain circumstances</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">John Kekes, `Ought Implies Can' and Two Kinds of Morality, he Philosophical Quarterly, Vol. 34, No. 137 (Oct., 1984), pp. 459-467</span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Wiley-Blackwell</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;"> for </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">The Philosophical Quarterly, BW</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Second, this is the most fair moral principle. In situations where one cannot perform a certain action, it would be unreasonable to claim she has an obligation to do so</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Wallace, R. Jay. Responsibility and the Moral Sentiments, 1994, 103-104.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"consideration of fairness...of moral value."</span>

<span style="color: windowtext;">US government doesn’t guarantee even its US citizens due process rights- </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kevin </span><span class="Underline">Johnson 12</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Reporter, USA Today], “Holder: Constitution doesn't cover terrorists”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/story/2012-03-05/eric-holder-killing-us-citizens-terrorist-threat/53374776/1. </span>

<span style="line-height: 12.800000190734863px;">"Attorney General Eric Holder...is not feasible."</span>

Certain rights are taken away from those who support terrorists

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Whitehead John W. et al. “Forfeiting "Enduring Freedom" for "Homeland Security": A Constitutional Analysis of the USA Patriot Actand the Justice Department's Anti-Terrorism Initiatives.” American University Law Review 51, no.6 ( June 2002):1081-1133. BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"an individuals beliefs...in the United States."</span>

Substantive Due Process PIC:

Text: The United States ought to give non-citizens accused of terrorism the same procedural due process rights as it gives it citizens.

Competition: The PIC is competitive
The Legal Dictionary,
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Due Process of Law, </span>//[[http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Due+Process+of+Law|//http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Due+Process+of+Law//]]

"due process is...right to an attorney."

Net Benefits:

<span style="color: windowtext;">First, threats to national security are too high to guarantee substantive due process rights</span>

Whitehead<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> John W. et al. “Forfeiting "Enduring Freedom" for "Homeland Security": A Constitutional Analysis of the USA Patriot Actand the Justice Department's Anti-Terrorism Initiatives.” American University Law Review 51, no.6 ( June 2002):1081-1133. BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"an individuals beliefs...in the United States."</span>


Those accused of terrorism actually retains more rights
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">Jenny S. Martinez, Associate Professor of Law & Justin M. Roach, Jr. Faculty Scholar, Stanford LawSchool, PROCESS AND SUBSTANCE IN THE “WAR ON TERROR”COLUMBIA LAW REVIEW</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">VOL. 108 JUNE 2008 NO. 5</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">, BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">"Actually having to....is the same."</span>









=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">irst, states are not in a position to be subject to the same ethical standards as individuals.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">George Kennan 85. [He is Professor Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton.]“Morality and Foreign Policy” Foreign Affairs, Vol. 64, No. 2 1985. pp. 205-218 AG</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Certain distinctions should be made before one wanders ¶ farther into this thicket of ¶</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">it accept ¶ any moral reproach for acting on the basis of them.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Second, even if states have obligations not to violate side constraints, there is no act omission distinction for states.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Sunstein and Vermuele 05, Cass Sunstein [Felix Frankfurter Professor of Law at Harvard Law School] and Adrian Vermuele [Harvard professor of law], “Is Capital Punishment Morally Required? The Relevance of Life-Life Tradeoffs,” Chicago Public Law & Legal Theory Working Paper No. 85 (March 2005), p. 17.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The most fundamental point is that unlike individuals, governments always and necessarily face a</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">a set of policy instruments that do not adequately or fully discourage it.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Third, status quo bias- any moral norms against preventing harm is just a psychological bias towards the current state of affairs.</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bostrom and Ord 06, Nick Bostrom [Swedish philosopher at the University of Oxford known for his work on existential risk and the anthropic principle. He holds a PhD from the London School of Economics] and Toby Ord [Professor of Philosophy University of Oxford], “The Reversal Test: Eliminating Status Quo Bias in Applied Ethics”, Ethics 116 (July 2006): 656–679. RFK</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Changes from the status quo will typically involve both gains and losses, with the</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>



<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">enhancements? If so, how can the bias be diagnosed and removed?</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">My advocacy is that the United States Federal Government ought to model the French health care system by reimbursing patients through a national insurance program funded by increasing payroll and income taxes. All citizens will be automatically enrolled with an insurance fund based on their occupational status, with special guarantees for severe or chronic illnesses. Citizens will have the freedom to purchase supplementary health insurance.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Public and private institutions will retain their status and payment will be made on a fee for service basis– that preserves the benefits of free choice and privatization while guaranteeing insurance- empirically proven in France.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Victor G. Rodwin 03, [Professor of Health Policy and Management Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service New York University], “The Health Care System Under French National Health Insurance: Lessons for Health Reform in the United States”, Am J Public Health. 2003 January; 93(1): 31–37. RFK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The French health care system combines universal coverage with a public–private mix of</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">organization of health care services, cost sharing, and supplementary private insurance.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND- the French health care system has literally been called “the best in the world”--- we get access to high quality health care for 100% of citizens</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Joseph Shapiro 08, [NPR News Investigations correspondent.] “Health Care Lessons From France”, National Public Radio,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: windowtext;">[[http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=92419273]]</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, 2008. RFK</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">In 2000, health care experts for the World Health Organization tried to do a</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">mothers and their babies, home visits from nurses and subsidized day care.</span>
==Negative== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Big Pharma DA</span>=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Universal health care drives down investment in pharmaceutical companies</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Fazio 09, Managing Editor of the Northwestern Chronicle, Weekly Contributor to the D.C. Writeup, & Undegraduate at Northwestern University, 7-22-9 (Ryan, “Public Option Will Pull Plug on Medical Innovation,” D.C. Writeup, [[http://www.thedcwriteup.com/2009/07/public-option-will-pull-the-plug-on-medical-innovation/]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">America, we often hear, is the last industrialized nation without a universal health</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">, we should fight to kill the public option before it kills us.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND- a free pharmaceutical industry is critical to preventing global disease outbreaks and bioterrorism</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Bandow 05, Senior Fellow at the Cato Institute & Former Special Assistant to President Reagan, 3-27-5 (Doug, “A strong pharmaceutical industry is the best defense against pandemics,” [[http://www.signonsandiego.com/uniontrib/200]]¶ 50327/news_lz1e27bandow.html)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Diseases like SARS and avian flu, which have proved resistant to drugs commonly used</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">time those who benefit from industry research stopped treating drugmakers as the enemy.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND- disease outbreak leads to mass death</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Greger 06, Director of Public Health & Animal Agriculture at the Humane Socieity of the U.S. & graduate of the Tufts University School of Medicine, 6 (Michael, Bird Flu: A Virus of Our Hatching, [[http://www.birdflubook.org/a.php?id=31]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">AND</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">Freedom NC</span>== 

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">I negate and value morality</span>


Autonomy is key to moral deliberation; freedom is the bedrock of responsibility.

Dwight Furrow. “Objective Moral Reasons.” //Ethics//. 2005. 20.

According to Kant...constraints on ourselves."

Thus the standard is respecting autonomy in order to preserve moral deliberations

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that individuals would not consent to through their own moral deliberations. </span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Raymond </span>Raad<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, MD, MPH, </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ethics of the individual mandate</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [[http://www.kevinmd.com/blog/2011/02/ethics-individual-mandate.html]], 2012, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"There is a remarkable...to his benefit?"</span>




=January-February= 
==State Legitimacy AC== 
V: Justice
S: Maintaining State Legitimacy

A) Political Legitimacy <span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">is the primary goal of all states and is central to all political theories</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce Gilley, Professor at Princeton University, “The meaning and measure of state legitimacy: Results for 72 countries” European Journal of Political Research 45: 499–525, 2006, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The concept of...cry of legitimate crisis."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">B) </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The one unifying power of all states is force</span>


<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Weber, Max. [1991] 1918. “Politics as a Vocation,” In</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> //From Max Weber: Essays in Sociology//</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">, H. H. Gerth and C. Wright Mills (eds.), London: Routledge. BW</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">"Every state is...within a state."</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">C) </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The most comprehensive study on value theory proves that people value things if they are legitimate. This general rule also applies to the law: people comply with the law because they view it as legitimate</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Tom R, Tyler, a University Professor at New York University. He teaches in the Psychology Department and the Law School. He is currently Chair of the Department of Psychology, Legitimacy and Criminal Justice: The Benefits of Self-Regulation, BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The purpose of...model of regulation."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A is the link </span>
**Racism and classicism is growing which threatens the legitimacy of the United States both internally and externally because it hurts the foundation of all just systems. Thompson and Bobo explain**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thompson and Bobo, “Unfair by Design: The War on Drugs, Race , and the Legitimacy of the Criminal Justice System” //Social Research,// Vol. 72 No. 2, Fairness: Its Role on Our lives (Summer 2006), pp. 445-472, Published by: The New School, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"We very much...the American Creed."</span>


B is the impact



**<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">The impact is that the US legal system loses its legitimacy. </span>**

**"LIke many criminologists...the court system."**

**The Plan is that the US Criminal Justice System**

**The Plan is that the US Criminal Justice System will, consistent with the findings of Ferguson, value rehabilitation over retribution. Affirmative speeches clarify intent.**

**Ferguson explains the advocacy of the aff**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">Aretha Faye Marbley and Ralph Ferguson, “</span><span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">Responding to Prisoner Reentry, Recidivism, and Incarceration of Inmates of Color: A Call tothe Communities”, Journal of Black Studies, Vol. 35, No. 5 (May., 2005), pp. 633-649, BW</span>

<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">"Local, state and federal...in empirical research."</span>


===<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">Consequentalism AFF</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">V: Justice</span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 8pt;">S: Consistency with a consequentalist theory of punishment</span>


**Since the resolution is a question of punishment, I defend a Consequentalist theory of punishment. This view holds that we should punish criminals only if punishment would promote some greater good. Von Hirsch**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Andrew von Hirsch, Proportionality in the Philosophy of Punishment, Crime and Justice, Vol. 16 (1992), pp. 55-98, BW</span>

"consequentalist theories have...of those punished."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">First, Ethical reasoning is directed to satisfy all those who are affected. Peter __Singer__ explains.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Peter Singer “Practical Ethics” pp. 13-14, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"The universal aspect...for remaining utilitarians."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Any ethical theory must have simplicity, power, and coherence.</span>

Shelly **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kagan</span>**, “The Limits of Morality” (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989). FD

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"Let me start...to reject them."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Consequentialism has simplicity, power, and coherence. Any other ethical story is non-unified, ad hoc, and at odds with non-moral rationality. Petit</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">Phillip **Pettit** [Professor of Politics and Philosophy, Princeton University], “Consequentialism” in A Companion to Ethics, ed. Peter Singer (1993), 238. </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 10pt;">There are at least...of practical rationality."</span>

**First, Retributivism is opposed to increasing the overall goodness of the state of affairs. Dolinko**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Dolinko, Retributivism, Consequentialism, and the Intrinsic Goodness of Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 5 (Sep., 1997), pp. 507-528, BW</span>
"The inevitable error-prone...lacks goodness altogether!"

**Second, Consequentialism gives us no reason to punish a guilty person, contrary to retribution. Dolinko 2**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Dolinko, Retributivism, Consequentialism, and the Intrinsic Goodness of Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 5 (Sep., 1997), pp. 507-528, BW</span>
**"The Consequentalist retributivist...makes punishment just."**

**Third**, **There is no obligation to punish for intrinsic good under Consequentalism- Dolinko 3**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David Dolinko, Retributivism, Consequentialism, and the Intrinsic Goodness of Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 5 (Sep., 1997), pp. 507-528, BW</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.545454025268555px;">"To be sure...bring X about."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fourth, under Consequentalism, there can be a reason to punish an innocent person if it promotes good. Even retributivists like Joesph Adams agree. He writes</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adams, Joseph Q., "Retribution Requires Rehabilitation" (2008). Philosophy Theses. Paper 35. BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"One noteworthy feature...justification of punishment."</span>


**In contrast, the idea of rehabilitation is inherently consequentalist. Rehab is based in incorporation back into society, which is based on ethics to promote good. Adams 2**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adams, Joseph Q., "Retribution Requires Rehabilitation" (2008). Philosophy Theses. Paper 35. BW</span>

"Before we begin...avoid more punishment."

===Community Justice AFF=== 
**<span style="color: #212121;">I defend a system of Community Justice where accused criminals are punished and treated by the Community Court and Justice System in the United States. Additionally, the accused will undergo educational, vocational, and health programs focused on the individual. There will be a two-tier program, which divides violent and non-violent offenders and subsequent sentencing and punishment procedures. </span>**

First, all other theories of Justice are flawed at the level of epistemology. Most theories assume that justice requires objective facts and reasoning to “give each their due.” But Justice requires inter-subjective reasoning in order to accurately prescribe action. Habermas
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Jurgen Habermas, “Truth and Justification”, translated by Barbara Fultner, </span><span style="color: #141413; font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">2003 Massachusetts Institute of Technology. RK</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">This performatively established...understandings and actions."</span>

Second, we ought to accept a dialogic theory of ethics in which the moral point of view arises from the encounter with others. Ethics should be understood as the product of interaction of a plurality of subjects under conditions of equal power that do not suppress the voices of any. Iris Young
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Iris Marion Young, [Was Professor of </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Political_Science|Political Science]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_of_Chicago|University of Chicago]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and affiliated with the Center for Gender Studies and the Human Rights program there.] “Justice and the Politics of Difference”, Princeton University Press, 1990. p. 37. RK</span>

**"distributive theories of Justice...actions or acquisitions."**

Justice demands that decision-making processes are open to public processes of deliberation, since that is the only way to fairly determine what everyone is due. Benhabib:
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Seyla Benhabib, [</span><span style="color: #333333; font-size: 8pt;"> Eugene Meyer Professor of Political Science and Philosophy at Yale University],</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Deliberative Rationality and Models of Democratic Legitimacy”, Constellations Volume I, No/, 1994. Published by Blackwell Publishers. RK </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">A deliberative model...processes of deliberation."</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">First, Community Justice Initiatives have always valued rehabilitation over retributive ideals- Lanni</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Adriaan Lanni, </span><span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 8pt;">J.D., Yale Law School; Ph.D. University of Michigan, “The Future of Community Justice”, Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review pp. 359-400, BW</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">"At a time...warehouse of offenders."</span>












==Negative== 
Politics DA-

A. Uniqueness- Fiscal Cliff Will Pass - Concessions
(AP, Jim Kuhnhenn and Andrew Taylor, "Fiscal Cliff agreement seen as possible," 12/6 pg online @ www.rep-am.com/articles/2012/12/06/news/national/688254.txt//gh-arjun)
Bluster and the...higher income folks."

B. Link- the plan is unpopular

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Martin H. </span><span class="Underline">Pritikin 08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Associate Professor of Law, Whittier Law School. JD, Harvard Law School, 2000; BA, University of Southern California, 1997.], “ARTICLE: IS PRISON INCREASING CRIME?”, 2008 Wis. L. Rev.. BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The evidence suggests...anyone who is."</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">C. Impact- </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">Immediate tax hikes and spending cuts kill jobs </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">I'm as amazed...needs to be bold."</span>

Economic Collapse leads to nuclear war-
Harris and Burrows 9
__(__Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis”)

Increased potential for global conflict...dog-eat-dog world."

Censure Theory-

V: Justice S: Maintaining Censure Theory
Defined by Meitz
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thaddeus Metz, Censure Theory and Intuitions about Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jul., 2000), pp. 491-512, BW</span>
<span style="line-height: 14.545454025268555px;">"Censure Theory in...punishment in justified."</span>

<span style="line-height: 14.545454025268555px;">There are 2 intuitions about punishment</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Thaddeus Metz, Censure Theory and Intuitions about Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jul., 2000), pp. 491-512, BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">"Many people have...to do so."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">And, Censure Theory is the only theory of punishment that can cohere with these intuitions."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Thaddeus Metz, Censure Theory and Intuitions about Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jul., 2000), pp. 491-512, BW</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">"Censure theory best...punishment addressed here."</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">I Contend that retribution is best for Censure Theory</span>


<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">Thaddeus Metz, Censure Theory and Intuitions about Punishment, Law and Philosophy, Vol. 19, No. 4 (Jul., 2000), pp. 491-512, BW</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.909090995788574px;">"Some theorists hold...fact been unjust."</span>







=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]