[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==State: NOLA== 
1AC
Contention One: Never Again
The horrors of Katrina justify the statement: ‘Never again’. The victims of Katrina were a result of the neoliberal regime that looked on as thousands perished, reflective of a fascist machine where democracy is lost.
**Giroux, 06** – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Reading Hurricane Katrina: Race, Class, and the Biopolitics of Disposability”, accessed from JSTOR 7/1/12)//BZ//
//Hurricane Katrina may have reversed the self-imposed silence of the media and public//
//AND//
//where democracy has lost its claims” (2005, 122,124).//
//After many consequences of hurricanes, and disastrous threats New Orleans still lacks mass transit evacuation plans. The carless will be trapped again.//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Renne et al., 08</span> – Renne is a PhD from the University of New Orleans, Sanchez is a PhD from the University of Utah, and Litman is a director at the Victoria Transport Policy Institute (John Renne, Thomas Sanchez, and Todd Litman, “National Study on Carless and Special Needs Evacuation Planning: A Literature Review”, October 2008, accessed 7/3/12)//BZ
The objective of this study is to research how state departments of transportation (state
AND
can be understood and adopted widely (Jenkins, Laska and Williamson 2007).
Levees are inefficient, costly, and will inevitably fail– leaves entire populations vulnerable
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Associated Press 8/31/12</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">– Cain Burdeau, reporter (8/31/12, Isaac renews old debate about Louisiana levees, [[http://news.yahoo.com/isaac-renews-old-debate-louisiana-levees-205959649.html]]</span>
IRONTON, La. (AP) — When Hurricane Isaac whirled into the Gulf
AND
house behind the levee and then have something more disposable outside the levees."
Plan
Thus the plan: Department of Homeland Security and Department of Transportation should increase its investment in evacuation transportation infrastructure in New Orleans.
Contention Two: The Carless
The intersection of race and poverty and car-lessness made the aftermath of Katrina into an overwhelming display of institutional racism. Mass transportation is critical for evacuation.
Wailoo et al. 10 (Keith Wailoo- B.A, 1984,
AND
and Vulnerability in America; 11/2010; pages 23-27)
A landmark decision most known today for its application beyond transportation, Plessy v.
AND
car ownership ever more expensve and difficult in many inner-city neighborhoods.
Obligation to preclude the potentiality of the past’s repetition requires government action on Katrina
**Jorgenson 11** <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Hurricane Katrina: Humanitarian Obligations and Lessons Learned Ellen Jorgenson Case-Specific Briefing Paper Humanitarian Assistance in Complex Emergencies University of Denver 2011 </span>
According to Fred Cuny, the root cause of most disasters is poverty (Van
AND
, NGO and individual reactions to disasters, interpreted through policy and practice.
Environmental justice demands federal action; leaving policies up to local populations recreates disasters as communities fail to live up to their obligations to the poor.
**Morse 2008**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> - senior attorney with the Biloxi office of Mississippi Center for Justice; received Equal Justice Works Katrina Legal Fellowship; received Edwin D. Wolf Public Interest Law Award from the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under Law; co-founder of the Steps Coalition; Panelist for the Joint center for Political and Economic Studies, NAACP; published by the Joint Center For Political and Economic Studies</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Health Policy Institute (Reilly, “Environmental Justice Through the Eye of Hurricane Katrina” 2008, </span><span style="color: blue; font-size: 6pt;">[[http://198.65.105.204/hpi/sites/all/files/EnvironmentalJustice.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> )//ALo//</span>
//The American transportation model unfairly tends to burden minorities and the poor. In general//
//AND//
//including the right to return and to adequate interim care and treatment. 194//
//Our obligation is to make the state ethical – the state is inevitability and the alternative to state ethics is the destruction of the other//
//**Simmons 99**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">William Paul, current Associate Professor of Political Science at ASU, formerly at Bethany College in the Department of History and Political Science, “The Third: Levinas' theoretical move from an-archical ethics to the realm of justice and politics,” Philosophy & Social Criticism November 1, 1999 vol. 25 no. 6 </span>//

//Since ‘it is impossible to escape the State’, 70 Levinas insists that the//
//AND//
//to itself, only hastens the contrary of what it wants to secure.//
//A crisis focused ethic is wrong – attention to isolated instances of warfare ignores the daily horrors of militarist exceptionalism. This is the precondition for any war to happen//
//**Cuomo 96**<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> – PhD, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Department of Philosophy, University of Cincinnati (Chris, Hypatia Fall 1996. Vol. 11, Issue 3, pg 30)</span>//
//In "Gender and `Postmodern' War," Robin Schott introduces some of the ways//
//AND//
//the face of what appears to be the inevitability of war and militarism.//


//Finally, Affirmation of political hope is necessary to reinvigorate democracy. Democracy is militarized in the status quo, parallel with disposability. To educate and advocate for hope is to evoke the political power of resistance.//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Giroux, 2010</span> – Professor of English and Cultural Studies at McMaster University, previous professors at BU, Miami U, and Penn State (Henry, “Memories of Hope in the Age of Disposability”, published 9/28/2010, accessed online 7/2, http://archive.truthout.org/memories-hope-age-disposability63631)//BZ
The working-class neighborhood of my youth never gave up on democracy as an
AND
young people waiting for adults to prove the courage of their democratic convictions.

==Smarx Round Up== 
===Digonce=== 

Contention 1: Rural Exclusion

The Federal Government is pushing for increased Broadband Access nationwide, spurred by President Obama~’s 2012 "Dig Once" executive order, which mandates a set of best practices that must be established by June 2013 in order to expand access to the web.
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Chris </span>Janson<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, a senior product manager in Ciena~’s industry marketing group, August 14, </span>2012<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">. ~~[Ciena Insights Blog," </span><span style="color: #26353a; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">"Dig Once" Initiative a step towards U.S. broadband success" [[</span>http://www.ciena.com/connect/blog/Dig-Once-Initiative-a-step-towards-US-broadband-success.html-http://www.ciena.com/connect/blog/Dig-Once-Initiative-a-step-towards-US-broadband-success.html]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">~~] (BD)</span>//
//To help address this, on June 14, 2012, President Obama issued an//
//AND//
//steering Universal Service Fund and eRate monies towards that purpose is under discussion.//
//But this is not enough – 19 million remain without access to broadband. Leaving last mile connectivity up to the discretion of other actors perpetuates exclusion.//
//Federal Communication Commission 12 ~~[August 21 2012 "Eight Broadband Progress Report" ([[http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-12-90A1.pdf-http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-12-90A1.pdf]]) ~~[KC~~]//

//We have also continued to push forward with our Broadband Acceleration Initiative to lower the//
//AND//
//.S. prices for these higher speed services exceed many other countries.//

//For Example, Rural African-American and low income communities in Mississippi have less access to broadband service because of last mile connectivity and/or price.//
//Wiley and Johnson 12 ~~[Maya Wiley, President, The Center for Social Inclusion and Derrick Johnson, Executive Director, Mississippi State Conference NAACP will discuss the report~’s findings "Landmark Study Shows Race Predicts Access to Broadband in Mississippi" ([[http://www.diversityinc.com/diversity-press-releases/landmark-study-shows-race-predicts-access-to-broadband-in-mississippi/-http://www.diversityinc.com/diversity-press-releases/landmark-study-shows-race-predicts-access-to-broadband-in-mississippi/]]) ~~[KC~~]//

//The Center for Social Inclusion (CSI) and Mississippi State Conference NAACP released a//
//AND//
//and adults~’ capacity to learn suffers significantly when they cannot access the Internet.//

//This causes electronic-redlining that reinforces exclusion of peripheral groups//
//Bosah Ebo, 1998. ~~["Internet or Outernet?" Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet ed. by Bosah Ebo~~] p. 6 (BD)//

//Critics argue that access to cyberspace seems currently to be concentrated in the hands of//
//AND//
//the integration of peripheral groups into mainstream cultural interactions and creates a cyberghetto.//


//This results in internet "have-nots" that perpetuates cycles of exclusion preventing social mobility//
//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Susan P. </span>Crawford 11<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">, NYT, Dec. 3, ~~[New York Times, "The New Digital Divide"[[</span>http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/04/opinion/sunday/internet-access-and-the-new-divide.html?_r=0%26pagewanted=print-http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/04/opinion/sunday/internet-access-and-the-new-divide.html?_r=0%26pagewanted=print]]<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">~~] (BD)</span>
Such numbers may seem proof that America is, indeed, online. But they
AND
have wired Internet access at home, compared with 72 percent of whites.


And the elite access to internet that increases inequality and information redlining is a manifestation of racism that dictates power and mobility
Alecia Wolf, 1998. ~~["Internet or Outernet?" Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet ed. by Bosah Ebo~~] p. 2 (BD)

Equality of access necessarily affects Internet equality. While a standard telephone line can be
AND
communities are "connected" in a nondiscriminatory manner (Action Alert 1994).

The Internet has become the primary mediator of social relationships. Investigating the role of race, class, and gender is germane to the question of exclusion and access.
Bosah Ebo, 1998. ~~["Internet or Outernet?" Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet ed. by Bosah Ebo~~] p. 2 (BD)

Access to cyberspace becomes even more important as new notions of social identities develop,
AND
have access to the new cyberculture will inevitably stand to benefit the most.


The Digital Divide is a reflection of Society – this causes inequalities and an indifferent government. Only the plan solves.
Barney Warf, Univ of Kansas, 2010 ( IGI Global "The Digital Divide in the
U.S. in the 21st Century" [[http://techstyle.lmc.gatech.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/digitaldivide2.pdf-http://techstyle.lmc.gatech.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/10/digitaldivide2.pdf]]~~] (BD)

The digital divide in the U.S. reflects the unique constellation of cultural
AND
what is clear is that without them, the digital divide will persist.

Because we recognize our privilege in the context of our gender, race, and as debaters whose activity thrives off of the use of computers and the internet, we offer the following -

Plan: The President of the United States should extend the executive order "[[Accelerating Broadband Infrastructure Deployment-http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2012/06/14/executive-order-accelerating-broadband-infrastructure-deployment]]" to mandate and fund the build-out of last mile connectivity with open access conduit and fiber-optic roads.

As a forum that encourages methods to fight oppression, the internet deconstructs hierarchies, as it lacks the exclusion found in face to face encounters.
Bosah Ebo, 1998. ~~["Internet or Outernet?" Cyberghetto or cybertopia? : race, class and gender on the Internet ed. by Bosah Ebo~~] p. 2-3

Proponents of the Internet see the technology as a great equalizer because virtual communities do
AND
platforms that subvert patriarchal hierarchy in the social and economic structure of society.

Federal action is key to unlocking the Internet~’s emancipatory potential by alleviating service providers~’ prohibitive high costs associated with extending broadband services to rural areas.
New America Foundation 09 ~~[June "Linking Broadband with Transportation Infrastructure: New America Foundation Applauds Klobuchar/Warner Bill" ([[http://wirelessfuture.newamerica.net/pressroom/2009/linking_broadband_transportation_infrastructure_new_america_foundation_applauds_klobuchar_warner_bill-http://wirelessfuture.newamerica.net/pressroom/2009/linking_broadband_transportation_infrastructure_new_america_foundation_applauds_klobuchar_warner_bill]]) ~~[KC~~]

The New America Foundation applauds this forward-thinking legislation. "As the nation
AND
efficient means to promote the deployment of fiber into communities across the country.

We are a form of targeted universalism that is the beginning of an exploration into deconstructing exclusion – Obama has a unique obligation to extend the executive order to communities of color he intentionally excluded; because the executive branch will not be held accountable for their role in perpetuating exclusion, other agent CPs won~’t solve for the states~’ role in excluding African American communities
Powell and Watts 10 ~~[John A. Caitlin "The Journal of Law in Society, Negotiating the New Political and Racial Environment" Vol. 11, 2010~~]
It is crucially important to connect the individual to the structural, and vice-
AND
racial resentment, they sacrifice much of the interest of non-whites.

The Internet is fundamental for the mobilization of social movements and insurgent politics. Any alternative results in notions of exclusion that perpetuate the Digital Divide.
Castells 7 ~~[Manuel, Annenberg School for Communication, University of Southern California. International Journal for Communication "Communication, Power and Counter-power in the Network Society" ([[http://www.itu.dk/people/khhp/speciale/videnskabelige%20artikler/Castells_2007%20-%20Communication%20power%20in%20the%20network%20society.pdf-http://www.itu.dk/people/khhp/speciale/videnskabelige artikler/Castells_2007 - Communication power in the network society.pdf]]) ~~[KC~~]

By counter-power I understand the capacity by social actors to challenge and eventually
AND
. That is building networks of meaning in opposition to networks of instrumentality.

Moreover, we must fight within the walls of institutions like the state to challenge forms of domination that result in methods of oppression like racism
Grossberg 1992 (Lawrence, Professor of Communication Studies @ University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill. We Gotta Get Out of This Place: Popular Conservativsm and Postmodern Culture, p. 390-391)

But this would mean that the Left could not remain outside the systems of governance
AND
as well as the moral responsibility) to fight them ~~[social disgraces~~].

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Contention 2: Impact Framing</span>
Utilitarian calculus ignores the actuality of racism; in their framing, racism still outweighs.
Charles **Mills**, 19**97**, The Racial Contract, p. 96-102
This partitioned moral concern can usefully be thought of as a kind of "Herrenvolk
AND
if you start with this, then you will end up with that.)


Structural violence outweighs all of your magnitude claims
Hintjens 7 <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Helen Hintjens is Lecturer in the Centre for Development Studies, University of Wales, "MDF Understanding Development Better"~~]</span>
From Johan Galtung, famous Norwegian peace ~’guru~’, still alive and heads up
AND
violence…is neither natural nor inevitable", p. 301 (Prontzos).

Predictions are impossible – linear analysis causes policy failure
Sa, 4 – Deug Whan, Dong-U College, South Korea, ("CHAOS, UNCERTA I N T Y, AND POLICY CHOICE: UTILIZING THE ADAPTIVE MODEL," International Review of Public Administration, vol. 8, no. 2, 2004, scholar)RK

In many cases, a small choice might lead to overwhelming results that generate either
AND
states, the same environments, and governed by the same causal relationships.
No risk of nuclear war or great power conflict—nuclear deterrence.
Tepperman 9 — Jonathan Tepperman, Deputy Editor of Newsweek, Member of the Council on Foreign Relations, now Managing Editor of Foreign Affairs, holds a B.A. in English Literature from Yale University, an M.A. in Jurisprudence from Oxford University, and an LL.M. in International Law from New York University, 2009 ("Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb," The Daily Beast, August 28^^th^^, Available Online at http://www.thedailybeast.com/newsweek/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.print.html, Accessed 01-27-2012)
A growing and compelling body of research suggests that nuclear weapons may not, in
AND
oppressive, but nothing in their behavior suggests they have a death wish.

===Blackness 1AC=== 

The story of transportation infrastructure in America must be traced back to its roots – the involuntary transportation of slaves across the Atlantic in the Middle Passage and the forced migration of Indians across the continental United States and into reservations – the creation of the road system and railroads in America was simultaneously the creation of the chain gang. Civil society has been foundationally constructed on the fungibility and forced mobility of black flesh that toils in the dust to produce a narrative of progress and passive liberalism. The resolution has asked us a question of transportation: our answer lies at the bottom of an ontological well that can only echo the screams of the Slave.
Brenman 7
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">~~[Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, [[http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html-http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]]~~]</span>
Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to the separation of races
AND
, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.

The interjection of our Black perspective in this round is able to challenge the supposedly neutral white paradigm that undergirds this year~’s topic and how knowledge production typically operates in debate. We implore you to join us in the disruption of the common paradigmatic approach to the topic by affirming our interjection of epistemic knowledge~’s that are able to counter the current hegemonic forms of power. Structural analysis refuses to work within the system. We are in opposition to America, opposition to white flight, opposition to the slave master, and in opposition to all white dominate modes of thinking. Genealogical interrogation history only leads us to one conclusion- the destruction of America

Resisting the anti-blackness through a genealogy of history~’s constitutive void is the starting point for our revolution
Kokontis 2011 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, "Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state," accessed via Proquest)</span>
On one hand, she addresses the literal politics that the theological narratives espouse.
AND
for reinvention and reconstruction that emerge when faced with profound absence and loss.

White supremacy is a global modality of genocidal violence – Slavery may have ended in name, but its operational logic continues to fester.
Rodriguez ~’11 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Professor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, "The Black Presidential Non-Slave: Genocide and the Present Tense of Racial Slavery", Political Power and Social Theory Vol. 22, pp. 38-43)</span>
To crystallize what I hope to be the potentially useful implications of this provocation toward
AND
people are incarcerated with the overwhelming consent of white/multiculturalist civil society.

Even though our abolitionist strategy may not be possible striving for impossible reparations is the only way to create a politics beyond current comprehension and change that way that society orients itself towards blackness
Wilderson and Howard 10 <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Frank, Assoc prof of African American Studies, Percy, Psychotherapist, "Frank Wilderson, Wallowing in the Contradictions, Part 1" [[http://percy3.wordpress.com/2010/07/09/frank-b-wilderson-%E2%80%9Cwallowing-in-the-contradictions%E2%80%9D-part-1/-http://percy3.wordpress.com/2010/07/09/frank-b-wilderson-%E2%80%9Cwallowing-in-the-contradictions%E2%80%9D-part-1/]])</span>
FW Reparations suggests a conceptually coherent loss. The loss of land, the loss
AND
and as Fanon does), but it won~’t lead us to a cure.
=Negative= 
=K= 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">By constructing the fantasy of a stable world to which we must aspire, the affirmative participates in a hegemonic securitization of reality. This will to order vilifies life by positing suffering and uncertainty as inherently defective aspects of existence that must be eliminated. </span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette 96</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Paul, associate professor, University of Ottawa, “I Mistrust all Systematizers and Avoid Them': Nietzsche, Arendt and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory,” Millenium – Journal of International Studies 25, http://mil.sagepub.com/contentI25/1/1.citation - oliver g)</span>
According to Nietzsche, the philosophical foundation of a society is the set of ideas
AND
transformation, the Will to Order becomes the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.

<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The plan’s epistemology behind war is a form of fear politics, in which everything should be secured. This is a denial of difference that turns life into a substance strangled from all meaning. Life and pain come into the world as one.</span>**</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 12pt;">Mark **Neocleous**, **08**, “Critique of Security”, Brunel University in the Department of Government)</span>
<span style="background-color: white; line-height: 1.5;">It is this project of total war, total security and permanent Emergency that requires </span>
AND
The ideology of national security is in this sense both hypochondriac and paranoid.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Suffering is an inevitable part of existence. The attempt to escape suffering through the control of thecosmos is a meaningless attempt to map out and control existence itself. **__This logic, of running away from anxiety breeds meaningless suffering- where all of our attempts at change are rooted in a nihilist approach, a hatred of our world.__**</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their strategy of maintaining hegemony exaggerates threats and mandates continuous intervention. Means no risk of the case impacts, alt solves hegemonic conflict and the kritik turns the case</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Layne 97</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Christopher Layne is Visiting Associate Professor at Naval Postgraduate school, “From Preponderance to Offshore Balancing: America's Future Grand Strategy”, International Security, Vol.22 Issue. 1 Summer 1997)</span>
The security/interdependence nexus results in the exaggeration of threats to American strategic interests
AND
to the strategy of preponderance’s concern with maintaining U.S. credibility.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Alternative is to render ourselves vulnerable to international danger and conflict. Attempting to moralize our approach to conflict guarantees depoliticized annihilation of those we deem immoral barbarians – ontological disarmament is critical to peace of mind.</span>**
**<span style="line-height: 1.5;">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nietzsche 1879</span>__</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (Friedrich, Chair of Classical Philology at the University of Basel, Human, All Too Human, The Nietzsche Channel, The Wanderer and His Shadow, http://www.geocities.com/thenietzschechannel/was.htm, ]-AC</span>

The means to real peace.— No government admits any more that it keeps an
AND
indeed you know, comes from a cloud—and from up high.
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]