[[toc]]
=Harvard Octos vs Lexington MR= 
Requested by Sarah Lim

==Fiscal Cliff Politics== 
**Obama pushing negotiations now – will pass in the lame duck**
**Chicago Tribune 10/18** (“Top bankers urge Washington to avoid fiscal cliff,” 2012, [[http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2012-10-18/news/sns-rt-us-usa-fiscalcliffbre89h0s7-20121018_1_fiscal-cliff-tax-cuts-top-bankers]])
"The president is confident, we remain confident that we can address these issues," White…package, but failed to reach such a deal.

**Plan costs substantial political capital**
**Ennis 10** (Peter, co-editors of The Oriental Economist Report, 1-30-2010, “Response to Rod Armstrong,’ http://nbrforums.nbr.org/foraui/message.aspx?LID=5&MID=36602
"PRO-FUTENMA" MOTIVATIONS: On the US side, many considerations…to Congress and say more Marines than expected will be going to Guam.

**Presidential leadership is key to a compromise – the alternative is the collapse of hegemony, a double-dip recession, and war in the Middle East**
**Hutchison**, U.S. Senator from the great state of Texas, **9/21**/2012
(Kay Bailey, “A Looming Threat to National Security,” States News Service, Lexis)
Despite warnings of the dire consequences, America is…harsh tax increases that could stall economic growth and punish working families.

**Middle East goes nuclear**
James A. **Russell**, Senior Lecturer, National Security Affairs, Naval Postgraduate School, **‘9** (Spring) “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East” IFRI, Proliferation Papers, #26, http://www.ifri.org/downloads/PP26_Russell_2009.pdf
Strategic stability in the region is thus undermined by various…region, with substantial risk for the entire world.

==T-In the US== 
**A. Interpretation—“in” means inclusion within a place—“investment” must be within the United States**
**Random House 12** (Unabridged Dictionary, “in”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t)
in   [in] Show IPA preposition, adverb, adjective, noun, verb, inned, in·ning.
preposition
1. (used to indicate inclusion within space, a place, or limits): walking in the park.
2. (used to indicate inclusion within something abstract or immaterial): in politics; in the autumn.
3. (used to indicate inclusion within or occurrence during a period or limit of time): in ancient times; a task done in ten minutes.
4. (used to indicate limitation or qualification, as of situation, condition, relation, manner, action, etc.): to speak in a whisper; to be similar in appearance.
5. (used to indicate means): sketched in ink; spoken in French.

**B. Violation—the affirmative invests in transportation infrastructure in Guam, which is a territory – distinct from the United States**
**Wise No Date** (wise geek is an organization specializing in answers contributors questions about any and all subjects- ranging from geography to philosophy, they do in depth research on each topic before they publishing a finding. “What Is the Difference Between a State and a Territory?” http://www.wisegeek.com/what-is-the-difference-between-a-state-and-a-territory.htm# )
The main differences between a state and a territory is generally…lives but that is claimed by a national government.

==Qatar FDI CP== 
**Text: The United States federal government should ask Qatar to substantially increase its investment in the Guam Road Network.**

**The counterplan solves the case – channels external investment toward domestic transportation projects**
**Rediker, 8** (Heidi Rediker, Chief Economist State Department of the United States; “Financing America’s Infrastructure: Putting Global Capital To Work,” http://newamerica.net/files/Financing_America_Infrastructure.PDF)
What is missing is a mechanism for channeling these…consider the use of financial tools to achieve our public policy goals.

**The counterplan is predictable and solves Qatari soft power — the impact is Fatah/Hamas peace**
**O’Sullivan, 11** (Meghan L. O’Sullivan, professor at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government, former deputy national security adviser, and Bloomberg columnist; “Tiny Qatar’s Big Plans May Change Mideast: Meghan L. O’Sullivan”, Bloomberg, 9/3/11, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-10-04/tiny-qatar-s-big-plans-may-change-u-s-mideast-policy-meghan-o-sullivan.html)
Qatar, a country of fewer than 2 million people set on a peninsula smaller than Connecticut, seems…the fabric of closer bilateral ties is woven, and the payoff goes well beyond corporate profits.

**Solves a Syrian strike on Israel**
**Petenngill, 11**
(MA-Modern History-University of St. Andrews and Research Fellow-Henry Jackson Society, August, http://www.standpointmag.co.uk/online-only-august11-the-perennial-palestinian-pawns-julia-pettengill-arab-spring-palestine)
If the deal fails, this gives Hamas and their Syrian…tycoon Rami Makhlouf’s clear threat to the Israeli government.

**Extinction**
**Joshi 2k** (Sharad Joshi, Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Center for Non-Proliferation, “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis”, Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA, Vol. XXII, No 12. 2000, ebsco)
Arab WMD Development A common argument is that the Israeli nuclear capability has…intolerable strain on Israel’s freedom of military movement and civilian morale.

==Japanese Imperial Relations K== 
**The relationship between the US and Japan is a closed, dualistic relationship that silences Okinawan voices so that they are unable to make determinations about their own social and political issues**
**Inoue, 7** (Masamichi S. Inoue, Ph.D. in cultural anthropology from Duke University and assistant professor of the Japan Studies Program and the Department of Modern and Classical Languages, Literatures, and Cultures at the University of Kentucky, Visiting Associate Professor in the Department of Engineering of the Shibaura Institute of Technology; “Okinawa and the U.S. Military: Identity Making in the Age of Globalization,” 4/15/2007, pg. 25-27)
These two political and conceptual problems in the postmodern/colonial/structural…eventually broke down for reasons to be specified in the course of this study.

**They make the suffering of Okinawans invisible – we have an obligation to end it**
**Taylor, no date** – (Jonathan Taylo, asst. professor, Ph.D Geography Department, California State University, Fullerton; “Anti-Military and Environmental Movements in Okinawa,” http://www.uky.edu/~ppkaran/conference/Anti-Military%20and%20Environmental%20Movements%20in%20Okinawa.pdf)
It is important to recognize the tremendous impacts this battle…enduring strength of Okinawan anti-base and peace movements.

**Independently, Guam bases are extensions of irrational US imperialism**
**Lutz, 10** (Catherine Lutz, professor and writer for Global Research; “American Military Bases on Guam: The US Global Military Basing System,” 8/2/2010, http://www.globalresearch.ca/american-military-bases-on-guam-the-us-global-military-basing-system)
Foreign military bases have been established throughout the…facing preemption and belligerence (Van Evera 2001).

**Imperialism ensures extinction**
**Santos 6** (Juan Santos, editor of Mexica Tlahtolli, a Chicano-Native American newspaper in Los Angeles; “Apocalypse No!”, 7/31/2006, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/18788)
It's simple. And obvious. We find ourselves in the midst of the…but ceaseless resource wars, and the thousand year reign of the Anti-Christ - a permanent new Reich.

**The alternative is to reject the aff’s exclusion of Okinawa in favor of radical inclusion and opposition to intimate societies** 
**Miller, 7** (Jennifer Miller, Department of History, University of Wisconsin-Madison; “From Local to Global and Back Again,” December 2007, http://www.h-net.org/reviews/showrev.php?id=1395/7)
Inoue's exploration of the development and…government's continued cooperation with this military. 

==Malacca== 
**Zero risk of Korean conflict**
Ashley **Rowland**, 12/3/**2010**. Stars and Stripes. “Despite threats, war not likely in Korea, experts say,” http://www.stripes.com/news/despite-threats-war-not-likely-in-korea-experts-say-1.127344?localLinksEnabled=false.
Despite increasingly belligerent threats to respond swiftly and strongly to military…the first people to be hit in a full-scale fight would be the elites.

**Peaceful China and multilateral institutions means no retaliation to Japanese strikes**
**Bitzinger and Desker, 9**
[Richard, Senior Fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Barry, Dean of the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies and Director of the Institute of Defense and Strategic Studies, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, “ Why East Asian War is Unlikely,” Survival | vol. 50 no. 6 | December 2008–January 2009
The Asia-Pacific region can be regarded as a zone…quite as threatening as some might argue.

**Hegemony can only be sustainable in the world of status quo retrenchment - The plan’s movement away makes decline inevitable**
**MacDonald and Parent 11** (Paul K., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College and a former International Security Program research fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Joseph M., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami, “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment,” International Security 35:4, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/ISEC_a_00034-MacDonald_proof2.pdf]], LVS)
We advance the neorealist argument that states, competing…decline because they feel their power ebbing.

**Retrenchment solves war – empirics are on our side**
**MacDonald and Parent 11** (Paul K., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College and a former International Security Program research fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, Joseph M., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami, “Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment,” International Security 35:4, [[http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/ISEC_a_00034-MacDonald_proof2.pdf]], LVS)
Contrary to these predictions, our analysis suggests some grounds…in foreign policy adventurism.94

==Alliance== 
**Relations are high and resilient – tsunami proves**
**Calder, 11** (Kent E. Calder, Director of the Reischauer Center for East Asian Studies at the School of Advanced International Studies at the Johns Hopkins University; “Crisis will strengthen Japan-U.S. relations,” 3/23/11, http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2011/03/23/crisis-will-strengthen-japan-u-s-relations)
Prime Minister Naoto Kan labeled his country's earthquake…gaining momentum, amplifying the broadening process.

**Economy is an alt cause**
**Cooper et al, 10** (William H. Cooper, Specialist in International Trade and Finance, AND Emma Chanlett, Specialist in Asian Affairs, AND Mark E. Manyin, Specialist in Asian Affairs; “Japan-U.S. Relations: Issues for Congress,” Congressional Research Service, 2/24/2010, http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/139350.pdf)
However, the economic problems in Japan and the United States…least according to some indicators.

**No Taiwan war – empirics**
**McCarthy 4** (Daniel McCarthy, lawyer in Salt Lake City, Utah, former resident of Taiwan, China traveler, US-Chinese businessman, and student of military affairs and of US-China-Taiwan relations; “Ignore the rhetoric, China won't attack Taiwan,” 2004, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/FB11Ad06.html)
Over the past several years, reports of China threatening…to take place. Here is an examination of China's four conditions.

==Solvency== 
**Guam doesn’t solve**
**Klingner 11**
Bruce Klingner is Senior Research Fellow for Northeast Asia in the Asian Studies Center at The Heritage Foundation, Heritage Foundation, May 18, 2011, " Proposed Re-Realignment for Northeast Asia Ignores Strategic Realities", [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/05/proposed-re-realignment-for-northeast-asia-ignores-strategic-realities]]
The Senators casually suggest that U.S. Air Force units…capabilities, embolden North Korea and China, and signal a U.S. retreat from Asia.

**New Guam infrastructure takes too long**
David **Berteau, et al**, CSIS Vice President, Report commissioned by Congress on Asia Pivot, August **2012**, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/120814_FINAL_PACOM_optimized.pdf]]
Construction of new facilities on Guam is challenging. Basic infrastructure…readiness and needed skill sets will be diminished.




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]