[[toc]]
=Useful information= 

We disclose 1AC, generic 1NC cites, and neg strats everything else is upon request

For convenience full text is not on this wiki however we'll be happy to accommodate requests for full text.

===Berkeley information=== 
Kristof is competing with Yennhi Hoang, she's a 2A and can be reached here: yennhihoang@gmail.com


===Note for Copper Classic=== 
Kristof is competing with Teddy Mugweh at this tournament

===Short explanation of our aff @ Alta=== 
[[http://www.theonion.com/articles/obese-salmon-unable-to-swim-upstream-to-spawn,30373/]]


[[media type="youtube" key="Ulo-vGhN9dA" height="315" width="420"]]


===Contact info:=== 

Kristof: kristof.weakley@gmail.com
Sean: sc505813@gmail.com

=Affirmative= 

==HSR== 
===1AC - Inherency 10/27=== 

Current policy is insufficient for the development of high speed rail, however HSR relies on congressional funding
Todorovich, Schned and Lane 11 (Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane; Todorovich and Schned work in leading positions at America 2050, Lane is a senior fellow at Regional Plan Association; 09/16/2011; "High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers"; https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf) Kristof
The current federal policy framework for high-speed rail was shaped in response to
AND
annual, often politicized, appropriations makes planning and operating the railroad difficult.



The USFG won~’t invest in HSR in 2013
Fox 4/18 (Joel Fox; Editor of Fox %26 Hounds and President of the Small Business Action Committee; Fox and Hounds; "You Can~’t Build High Speed Rail With No Money"; April 18 2012; http://www.foxandhoundsdaily.com/2012/04/you-cant-build-high-speed-rail-with-no-money/; Kristof)
The Legislative Analyst~’s "concern" that funding is not available for the High Speed
AND
token amount for high-speed rail in the FY 2013 federal budget."
===1AC - PLAN 10/27=== 
The United States Federal Government should substantially increase its investment in High Speed Rail.

===1AC - Econ 10/27=== 
U.S. Infrastructure in horrible condition – it~’s why our economy is unsustainable
Building America~’s Future 11
Building America~’s Future, Building America~’s Future: Falling Apart %26 Falling Behind, http://www.bafuture.com/sites/default/files/Executive_summary_0.pdf, 7-12-12, JL
Rebuilding America~’s economic foundation is one of the most important missions we face in the
AND
using the radar-based air traffic control system developed in the 1950s.

We~’re on the brink of a double dip – unemployment
Sivy 8/28 (Michael Sivy; Chartered Financial Analyst and a former securities analyst for an independent stock research firm; August 28 2012; "Is the U.S. Headed for a Double-Dip Recession?"; Time Business; http://business.time.com/2012/08/28/is-the-u-s-headed-for-a-double-dip-recession/; Kristof)
In addition to a host of warnings, last Wednesday~’s Congressional Budget Office report did
AND
of which could mean the difference between steady growth and another economic contraction.


High Speed Rail will spur economic growth through jobs – 3 key sectors affected
APTA 11(APTA - American Public Transportation Association; 4/6/2011; "Federal Investment in High-Speed Rail Could Spur 1.3 Million Jobs"; http://www.apta.com/mediacenter/pressreleases/2011/Pages/110406_HSR_Business.aspx; Kristof)
New report shows tangible economic benefits of investments in building a 21st century rail system
AND
long-term growth of new manufacturing and service jobs across the country.

High speed rail boosts the economy – mobility, direct and indirect employment, tourism, real estate and agglomeration are all unique internal links
Todorovich, Schned and Lane 11 (Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane; Todorovich and Schned work in leading positions at America 2050, Lane is a senior fellow at Regional Plan Association; 09/16/2011; "High-Speed Rail International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers"; https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf) Kristof
High-speed rail~’s ability to promote economic growth is grounded in its capacity to
AND
in place to maximize the economic impact of this capital-intensive investment.

Economic collapse causes multiple scenarios for nuclear war – terrorism, rogue states, Russia and China
Friedberg and Schoenfeld ~’8 (Aaron, Prof. Politics. And IR – Princeton~’s Woodrow Wilson School, and Gabriel, Senior Editor of Commentary and Visiting Scholar – Witherspoon Institute, Wall Street Journal, "The Dangers of a Diminished America", 10-21, http://online.wsj.com/article/SB122455074012352571.html)
Then there are the dolorous consequences of a potential collapse of the world~’s financial architecture
AND
of these countries seek to divert attention from internal travails with external adventures.


U.S. at risk of losing global competitiveness in status quo
Kunz, president and CEO of the U.S. High Speed Rail Association, ~’11
(Andy, 3/11, U.S. High-Speed Rail: Time to Hop Aboard or Be Left Behind, 2011 http://e360.yale.edu/feature/us_high-speed_rail_time_to_hop_aboard_or_be_left_behind/2378/)
The U.S. must build a national high-speed rail network if
AND
in a traffic jam on an interstate, watching the trains whiz past.

Now is key– delaying high speed rail will cede trade, currency and economic leadership to China
Burns, international journalist and UN correspondent, 11
(Patrick Burns; international journalist and United Nations correspondent; February 1, 2011; "All Aboard for High-Speed Rail"; http://www.policyinnovations.org/ideas/briefings/data/000194/; accessed July 2) Kristof
Finally, the risk of further procrastination on high-speed rail is part of
AND
make China and the United States even more attractive to business and innovation.

The perception of economic competitiveness is key to hegemony
Gelb, Council on Foreign Relations President, ~’10
~~[Leslie H. Gelb, former New York Times columnist and senior official in the state and defense departments, is currently president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations, Summer 2010, interview with The Fletcher Forum of World Affairs, "Fashioning a Realistic Strategy for the Twenty-First Century A Conversation with Leslie H. Gelb," http://ui04e.moit.tufts.edu/forum/archives/pdfs/34-2pdfs/Gelb.pdf, pgs. 5-6, accessed 7/11/12, JTF~~]
LESLIE H. GELB: Power is what it always has been. It is
AND
last few years has been the perception that our economy is in decline.



Hegemony solves ALL the impacts – Economy, Free Trade, Great Power, Nuclear, Regional and Smaller Wars. Collapse triggers ALL those impacts
Kagan, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace Senior Associate, 11
(Robert, Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and Senior Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund, 7-17-07, "End of Dreams, Return of History," Hoover Institution, No. 144, August/September, http://www.hoover.org/publications/policy-review/article/6136, Accessed 6/27/12, THW)
Others have. For decades "realist" analysts have called for a strategy of
AND
leg out from under a table and the table will not fall over.

===1AC - Warming 10/27=== 


HSR would save 6 billion pounds of CO2 emissions annually – prevents noise and environmental pollution caused by cars and planes
ELPC, Environmental Law %26 Policy Center, 2012
(Environmental Law %26 Policy Center,2012, "Environmental Benefits of High-Speed Rail", http://www.highspeedrailworks.org/benefits/environmental/, 7/5/12, ML)
A nationwide high-speed rail network could mean 29 million fewer car trips and
AND
runways and traffic lanes, creating more convenient transportation with less environmental damage.

Warming is caused by emissions – an overwhelming amount of scientific evidence
Rahmstorf 8 (Stefan, Professor at the Postdam Institute for Climate Research, "Anthropogenic Climate Change: Revisiting the Facts," http://www.pik potsdam.de/~~stefan/Publications/Book_chapters/Rahmstorf_Zedillo_2008.pdf)
This paper discussed the evidence for the anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2 concentration and the
AND
that anthropogenic global warming i0s a reality with which we need to deal.


Warming is the biggest impact – it kills hundreds of millions, destroys food/water/other resources, loss of land
Doebbler 11 (Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer, "Two threats to our existence." Ahram Weekly 1055 http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm)
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will
AND
and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.

Independently rapid climate change causes proliferation, nuclear war and extinction
Schwartz 2003 – Peter Schwartz, Global Business Network, and Doug Randall, "An Abrupt Climate Change Scenario and Its Implications for United States National Security" October, 2003.
The United States and Australia are likely to build defensive fortresses around their countries because
AND
drops suddenly, civilization is faced with new challenges that today seem unimaginable.



HSR reduces greenhouse gas emissions and foreign oil dependence by incentivizing a switch from cars to rail
AHSRA, American High Speed Rail Alliance, 2009
(American High Speed Rail Alliance, 2009, "HIGH SPEED RAIL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS", http://eunicecorbin.com/sample/advocacy/environment.html, 7/5/12, ML)
High speed rail development promises tremendous environmental benefits and bolsters U.S. energy
AND
solution to reduce America~’s dependence on fossil fuel and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.

Personal transportation is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases, reducing these emissions is key to solve warming
James 11 (James, Tony; Engineering %26 Technology (17509637); Jul2011, Vol. 6 Issue 6, p84-86, 3p, 2 Color Photographs; EBSCO; accessed July 2) Kristof
TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY citizens are travelling more than ever before. According to experts
AND
traffic congestion, governments around the world are looking seriously at rail investment.

Slowing the rate of warming solves – buys time to adapt
Flavin and Tunali 1996 Christopher, Odil, Worldwatch Institute, WORLDWATCH PAPER 130, June, p. 43
To assist policymakers, several recent studies have begun to explore the limits within which
AND
by more rapid shifts, which are more likely to cause major disruptions.


The plan also builds support for international climate agreements
Burwell 10 (David, Director of the Energy and Climate Program @ Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, " Transportation—The Leading Cause of Global Warming," http://carnegieendowment.org/2010/04/15/transportation-leading-cause-of-global-warming/2fr2)
Road transportation is the greatest contributor to global warming for the next 50 years according
AND
carbon and this would contribute to the likelihood of a global climate agreement."

===1AC - Solvency 10/27=== 

HSR decreases traffic and air congestion caused by other transportation systems
Dutzik, Senior Policy Analyst with Frontier Group specializing in energy, transportation, and climate policy, holds an M.A. in print journalism from Boston University and a B.S. in public service from Penn State University, 10
(Tony, 2010, "Why Intercity Passenger Rail?," The Right Track: Building a 21st Century High-Speed Rail System for America, Available Online at http://americanhsra.org/whitepapers/uspirg.pdf,7/5/12, ML)
An effective intercity transportation system carries business travelers, tourists, and others reliably and
AND
this had risen to 47 percent, with only 53 percent flying.11


Building HSR around populated areas and airports generates demand
Oldenburg, affiliated with America 2050 in 11
(Ben Oldenburg on January 11, 2011; affiliated with America 2050; http://www.america2050.org/pdf/HSR-in-America-Chapter-1.pdf; accessed July 3) Kristof
These regional parameters form the basis of our detailed analysis of corridors by megaregion described
AND
critical evaluation of whether the investment choices match the intent of public policies.



States and private companies do not have the funds and take too long – federal action is key to solve
Kuehn, Associate Partner with Oliver Wyman, Inc., 2011
(Jason, 4/18/11, Oliver Wyman, Inc., "A New Roadmap for High-Speed Rail", http://rail.railplanning.com/files/2011/04/20110425-OW-HSR-Commentary-for-Blog_final.pdf, 7/7/12, CNW)
Critical Success Factors for HSR in the United States What are the critical elements to
AND
it is unlikely the corridor will draw sufficient ridership to cover operating costs.


The role of the federal government is required to manage multistate programs and operations
TODOROVICH, SCHNED, %26 LANE 11
1. director of America 2050, a national urban planning initiative, member of
AND
Plan %26 Process LLP. Loeb Fellow at the Harvard Graduate School of Design
~~[Petra Todorovich, Daniel Schned, and Robert Lane, High-Speed Rail: International Lessons for U.S. Policy Makers, https://www.lincolninst.edu/pubs/dl/1948_1268_High-Speed%20Rail%20PFR_Webster.pdf, September 2011, Lincoln Institute of Land Policy, Policy Focus Report~~]
The Passenger Rail Investment Improvement Act (PRIIA) is well-suited to support
AND
clariﬁed, with well-deﬁned objectives for each type of rail service.

Keynesian economics correct- Great Depression and current recession proves
Krugman, 2011Nobel Prize in economics, econ @ Princeton,
(Paul, 12/29/11, NYT, "Keynes was Right", http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/30/opinion/keynes-was-right.html, 7/2/12, CNW) I <3 whoever cut this card - Chrystoojph
"The boom, not the slump, is the right time for austerity at
AND
G.D.P. in both countries down by double digits.

==1AC Alta Rounds 1 & 3== 

===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 


Over 430 dams have been dismantled thanks to conservationists
MSNBC 2011 (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44554709/ns/us_news-environment/t/largest-dam-removal-aims-bring-salmon-back/~~%23.UAdWrjFWrnM, NBC, msnbc.com and news services, Largest dam removal aims to bring salmon back, ¶ 9/18/2011 2:26:17 AM ET)
There has been an acceleration in dam removal in recent years in the United States
AND
by dams and questioning the safety of the impoundments, especially older ones.

High risk of Army corps removing dams on the Yuba river
Weiser 11/9 (Matt Weiser; Nov. 9, 2012; Sacramento Bee; "Water agency challenges Yuba River dam ruling"; http://www.sacbee.com/2012/11/09/4972637/water-agency-challenges-yuba-river.html; Kristof)
The Yuba County Water Agency is challenging new federal rules that require two dams on
AND
trap and haul" program that moves fish in trucks are other options.

The federal government chose to maintain four dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge
William Yardley, writer for New York Times, 4/26/2012 (April 26, 2012, "Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams", http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html)
SEATTLE — A federal judge who spent a decade presiding over one of the most
AND
judge can do. But you can raise hell, and I did."

===Thus the plan=== 

The United States federal government should remove its following dams: Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower Granite.

===Contention 2 is Life=== 

These dams are killing the salmon population – only removal solves
Budy et al 2 (Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)
Abstract.—The numbers of Snake River salmon and steelhead Oncorhynchus spp. have substantially
AND
that the delayed mortality of Snake River fish is related to the hydrosystem.

137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds, land animals and plants
SOWS 2009 (Save Our Wild Salmon, environmental advocacy group, 3/6/2009 ("Why Restore Wild Salmon?", Save Our Wild Salmon,
http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html)
Salmon and steelhead represent a critical ecological nutrient link between our oceans and our rivers
AND
sea, and again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest.
Loss of biodiversity causes the extinction of ALL species – every instance increases the risk of the impact
Diner 1994
(Judge Advocate~’s General~’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161,)
No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man has. In most cases
AND
wings, ~~[hu~~]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.
Orca whales need the salmon – only removing the dams helps both species survive
Hawley, environmental journalist, 2010 (Steven, journalist, author of Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, "The Idaho Tide," Summer, http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?%26assetid=53761, LVS)
The sin lies not in the wilderness, but in the dammed. Wild Idaho
AND
only way to take advantage of it is to tear out the dams."

Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem
National Wildlife Federation 06 ("Orcas on the Edge," 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)
Saving Puget Sound orcas will require cleaning up toxic waste sites, stemming storm-
AND
marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."

Marine ecosystem collapse causes extinction of all species
Craig, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 2003 (Robin Kundis, Associate Professor of Law, Indiana University School of Law, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for conserving marine ecosystems also exist, just as they
AND
- even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.

Biodiversity loss comparatively outweighs all impacts
Tobin 90 (Richard Tobin, THE EXPENDABLE FUTURE, 1990, p. 22 )
Norman Meyers observes, no other form of environmental degradation "is anywhere so significant
AND
is the loss of genetic and species diversity by destruction of natural habitats.

There is nothing unique about humanity, to believe anything else is to embrace insanity
Becker 73 (Earnest, The Denial of Death, pg 25-27, Ph.D ins Cultural Anthropology, was a professor the University of California at Berkely, San Franciso State College, and Simon Fraser University, and founder of The Ernest Becker Foundation; Kristof)
We always knew that there was something peculiar about man, something deep down that
AND
a body that is worth about 98¢. How to reconcile the two?

Human extinction is inevitable
Austen, 11 (Ben Austen; contributing editor of Harper~’s Magazine; "After Earth: Why, Where, How, and When We Might Leave Our Home Planet,"; popular science; http://www.popsci.com/science/article/2011-02/after-earth-why-where-how-and-when-we-might-leave-our-home-planet?page=3; Kristof)
Earth won~’t always be fit for occupation. We know that in two billion years
AND
will be more human beings who live off the Earth than on it."

MAD prevents great power wars
G John Ikenberry Albert G. Milbank Professor of Politics and International Affairs at Princeton University "The Rise of China and the Future of the West" Foreign Affairs January/February 2008 http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20080101faessay87102/g-john-ikenberry/the-rise-of-china-and-the-future-of-the-west.html
The most important benefit of these features today is that they give the Western order
AND
change. War-driven change has been abolished as a historical process.

"Nuclear Winter" theory is based on flawed data
Ball 6— Professor at the Strategic and Defense Studies Centre at the Australian National University, former Head of the Strategic %26 Defence Studies Centre, former Co-chairman of the Steering Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in Asia-Pacific ~~[Desmond, May, "The Probabilities of On the Beach: Assessing ~’Armageddon Scenarios~’ in the 21st Century," http://rspas.anu.edu.au/papers/sdsc/wp/wp_sdsc_401.pdf~~]
In the early 1980s, various scientists and scientific organisations questioned the simplicity of these
AND
as to underestimate them (e.g., by omitting fallout casualties).

Species adapt to climate change
Singer and Avery 2007 S. Fred, Atmospheric Physicist at George Mason University and Founder of the Environmental Policy Project, Dennis T., Agricultural Economics at Michigan State University and University of Wisconsin and former agricultural analyst for the US Department of State, "Unstoppable Global Warming: Every 1,500 years," p. 16
We know that species can adapt to abrupt global warming because the climate shifts in
AND
ago, and no known species were driven extinct by the temperature increase.
===Contention 3 is Solvency=== 

Removing the four dams helps salmon and allows boating
CNN 1999
(http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE)
The resolution is nonbinding, meaning the Army Corp of Engineers is not required to
AND
better off when they are allowed to operate naturally than in manmade form.
~~[Bell = Scott Bell, program coordinator of conservation and public policy for the American Canoe Association~~]
Removal is the only cost-effective option
Mace2009, Inland Northwest Project Director @ Save Our Wild Salmon, advocacy organization, 4/1/ (Sam, "Stuck in the Mud" Wild Salmon
http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/the-problems/stuck-in-the-mud-growing-flood-risk-growing-costs-with-keeping-the-lower-snake-river-dams.html)
CORPS~’ PREFERRED SOLUTIONS: COSTLY, UNREALISTIC, OR BOTH The Corps is looking at
AND
draft environmental impact statement in 2008-9 if sufficient funding is secured.

Congress must pay for and approve the project
Betsy Otto 2000, Former Vice Prsident 1999-2011of American Rivers Program, October 2000, "Paying for Dam Removal: A Guide to Selected Funding Sources," American Rivers, http://www.michigandnr.com/publications/pdfs/Fishing/dams/Paying-Dam-Removal.pdf
Specific Federal Congressional Appropriations ¶ A number of federal agencies can be authorized by Congress
AND
of Engineers to remove the Embrey Dam on the Rappahannock River in Virginia.

Our relationship to salmon demonstrates our fundamental ecological assumptions
Lichatowich 1 (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB), "Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis", pp 7-8, google books; Tara)
Some people believe that the century-long decline of the Pacific salmon following the
AND
free of the myths that have brought us to the point of crisis.

Vote aff to embrace an ethic that values more than humanity.
Weston 09 (Anthony, "The incompleat eco-philosopher p. 11-13 http://esotericonline.net/docs/library/Philosophy/Environmental%20philosophy/Ethics/Weston%20-%20The%20Incompleat%20Eco-Philosopher.%20Essays%20from%20the%20Edges%20of%20Environmental%20Ethics%20(2009).pdf)
One problem, I argue, is that in an unnoticed but also almost tautological
AND
too—but for the moment I think it will have to do.
Humans will inevitably go extinct – choose to vote aff for a moment of ethical clarity
Gilkinson 1998 (Andrew Glikson, Earth and paleo-climate scientist, Australian National University, 1998~~[10/19/08 http://thomaspainescorner.wordpress.com/2008/10/19/planet-eaters-chain-reactions-black-holes-climate-change-and-existentialist-philosophy/~~%23more-1105)
Possessed by a conscious fear of death, craving God-like immortality and omniscience
AND
Sisyphus happy." (Albert Camus, The Myth of Sisyphus, 1942)

For an incremental change to occur we must advocate dam removal in the face of political opposition
Bryant 11 (Levi, Prof of Philosophy at Collins College "Morton on Incrementalism" , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/)
Well no, this is not what arguments against incrementalism are about Tim. The
AND
, by contrast, disempowers by foreclosing the social production of alternative possibilities.

Incremental changes add up. Pragmatism offers achievable goals while helping to furthering a larger paradigmatic shift – specifically true for environmental policy
Hirokawa 2 — Keith Hirokawa, J.D. from the University of Connecticut and LL.M. from the Northwestern School of Law, 2002 ("Some Pragmatic Observations About Radical Critique In Environmental Law," Stanford Environmental Law Journal, Volume 21, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
Changes in each instance create entirely new contexts in which more (or less)
AND
pre-existed current environmental law and the alternative paradigms of environmental protection.

This debate can democratize dam removal – this advocacy must expand beyond environmental activists to include citizens
Hawley 11(Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). "Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities" (pp. 67-70). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition; Tara)
In addition to this kind of narrow-minded provincialism, loyalty to home breeds
AND
, then, is for all the eyes and ears on the water.

==1AC Alta Rds 6 & 7== 

similar to the first and 3rd round 1AC, some cards are different. I'll upload these once I have time

I guess nearly a month after I had time...

===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 


Over 430 dams have been dismantled thanks to conservationists
NBC 2011 (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44554709/ns/us_news-environment/t/largest-dam-removal-aims-bring-salmon-back/~~%23.UAdWrjFWrnM, NBC, msnbc.com and news services, Largest dam removal aims to bring salmon back, ¶ 9/18/2011 2:26:17 AM ET)
There has been an acceleration in dam removal in recent years in the United States
AND
by dams and questioning the safety of the impoundments, especially older ones.

High risk of Army corps removing dams on the Yuba River now
Weiser 11/9 (Matt Weiser; Nov. 9, 2012; Sacramento Bee; "Water agency challenges Yuba River dam ruling"; http://www.sacbee.com/2012/11/09/4972637/water-agency-challenges-yuba-river.html; Kristof)
The Yuba County Water Agency is challenging new federal rules that require two dams on
AND
trap and haul" program that moves fish in trucks are other options.

The federal government chose to maintain four dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge
William Yardley, writer for New York Times, 4/26/2012 (April 26, 2012, "Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams", http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html)
SEATTLE — A federal judge who spent a decade presiding over one of the most
AND
judge can do. But you can raise hell, and I did."

===Thus the plan=== 

The United States federal government should remove its following dams: Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose, and Lower Granite.

===Contention 2 is Life=== 

These dams are killing the salmon population – only removal solves
Budy et al 2 (Phaedra Budy* and Gary P. Thiede, Utah Cooperative Fish and Wildlife Research Unit, U.S. Geological Survey, Department of Fisheries and Wildlife, Nick Bouwes, Eco Logical Research, C. E. Petrosky of Idaho Department of Fish and Game, Howard Schaller of Columbia River Program Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Evidence Linking Delayed Mortality of Snake River Salmon to Their Earlier Hydrosystem Experience, North American Journal of Fisheries Management 22:35-51. 2002, Google Scholar)
Abstract.—The numbers of Snake River salmon and steelhead Oncorhynchus spp. have substantially
AND
that the delayed mortality of Snake River fish is related to the hydrosystem.

137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds, land animals and plants
SOWS 2009 (Save Our Wild Salmon, environmental advocacy group, 3/6/2009 ("Why Restore Wild Salmon?", Save Our Wild Salmon,
http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html)
Salmon and steelhead represent a critical ecological nutrient link between our oceans and our rivers
AND
sea, and again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest.
Orca whales need the salmon – only removing the dams helps both species survive
Hawley, environmental journalist, 2010 (Steven, journalist, author of Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities, quotes Ken Balcomb, director for the Center for Whale Research on San Juan Island in Puget Sound, "The Idaho Tide," Summer, http://www.patagonia.com/us/patagonia.go?%26assetid=53761, LVS)
The sin lies not in the wilderness, but in the dammed. Wild Idaho
AND
only way to take advantage of it is to tear out the dams."

Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem
National Wildlife Federation 06 ("Orcas on the Edge," 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)
Saving Puget Sound orcas will require cleaning up toxic waste sites, stemming storm-
AND
marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."

The neg will attempt to calculate impacts, however this decimates life – we must recalibrate our decision-making away from calculated exploitation of nature toward appreciation of balance and beauty
Lichatowich 1 (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB), "Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis", pp 1-7, google books; Tara)
In earlier times, Indians lived at the mouth of the Pysht River. Several
AND
without salmon retain its appeal as a high-quality environment for people?

Ecological concerns have priority over human ones
Elliott 97 (Herschel Elliott; University of Florida Emeritus Philosophy; February 26 1997; "A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons"; http://www.dieoff.org/page121.htm; Kristof)
Third, all systems of ethical beliefs are hypotheses about how human beings can live
AND
its parts — including the needs and interests of human societies and individuals.


===Contention 3 is Relationship=== 

Our relationship to salmon demonstrates our fundamental ecological assumptions
Lichatowich 1 (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB), "Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis", pp 7-8, google books; Tara)
Some people believe that the century-long decline of the Pacific salmon following the
AND
free of the myths that have brought us to the point of crisis.

Vote aff to embrace an ethic that values more than humanity.
Weston 09 (Anthony, "The incompleat eco-philosopher p. 11-13 http://esotericonline.net/docs/library/Philosophy/Environmental%20philosophy/Ethics/Weston%20-%20The%20Incompleat%20Eco-Philosopher.%20Essays%20from%20the%20Edges%20of%20Environmental%20Ethics%20(2009).pdf)
One problem, I argue, is that in an unnoticed but also almost tautological
AND
too—but for the moment I think it will have to do.
Embracement of a more than human world view gives meaning to our existence
Becker 73 (Earnest, The Denial of Death, pg 151-152, Ph.D ins Cultural Anthropology, was a professor the University of California at Berkely, San Franciso State College, and Simon Fraser University, and founder of The Ernest Becker Foundation; Kristof)
But on top of this special burden nature has arranged that it is impossible for
AND
erected outside one~’s own ego is one able to live at all."55

The human-animal distinction underscores all other modes of oppression. The aff needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics
Kochi, 2K9 (Tarik, Sussex law school, Species war: Law, Violence and Animals, Law Culture and Humanities Oct 5.3)//RSW
This reflection need not be seen as carried out by every individual on a daily
AND
The critic of war is thus a critic of war~’s norm-alization.


===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 

Removing the four dams helps salmon and allows boating
CNN 1999
(http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE)
The resolution is nonbinding, meaning the Army Corp of Engineers is not required to
AND
better off when they are allowed to operate naturally than in manmade form.
~~[Bell = Scott Bell, program coordinator of conservation and public policy for the American Canoe Association~~]
Removal is the only cost-effective option
Mace2009, Inland Northwest Project Director @ Save Our Wild Salmon, advocacy organization, 4/1/ (Sam, "Stuck in the Mud" Wild Salmon
http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/the-problems/stuck-in-the-mud-growing-flood-risk-growing-costs-with-keeping-the-lower-snake-river-dams.html)
CORPS~’ PREFERRED SOLUTIONS: COSTLY, UNREALISTIC, OR BOTH The Corps is looking at
AND
draft environmental impact statement in 2008-9 if sufficient funding is secured.

Congress must pay for and approve the project
Betsy Otto 2k, Former Vice Prsident 1999-2011of American Rivers Program, October 2000, "Paying for Dam Removal: A Guide to Selected Funding Sources," American Rivers, http://www.michigandnr.com/publications/pdfs/Fishing/dams/Paying-Dam-Removal.pdf
Specific Federal Congressional Appropriations ¶ A number of federal agencies can be authorized by Congress
AND
of Engineers to remove the Embrey Dam on the Rappahannock River in Virginia.

For an incremental change to occur we must advocate dam removal in the face of political opposition
Bryant 11 (Levi, Prof of Philosophy at Collins College "Morton on Incrementalism" , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/)
Well no, this is not what arguments against incrementalism are about Tim. The
AND
, by contrast, disempowers by foreclosing the social production of alternative possibilities.

Incremental changes add up. Pragmatism offers achievable goals while helping to furthering a larger paradigmatic shift – specifically true for environmental policy
Hirokawa 2 — Keith Hirokawa, J.D. from the University of Connecticut and LL.M. from the Northwestern School of Law, 2002 ("Some Pragmatic Observations About Radical Critique In Environmental Law," Stanford Environmental Law Journal, Volume 21, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
Changes in each instance create entirely new contexts in which more (or less)
AND
pre-existed current environmental law and the alternative paradigms of environmental protection.

This debate can democratize dam removal – this advocacy must expand beyond environmental activists
Hawley 11(Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). "Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities" (pp. 67-70). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition; Tara)
In addition to this kind of narrow-minded provincialism, loyalty to home breeds
AND
, then, is for all the eyes and ears on the water.


STRATEGIES OF LIBERATION THAT DISREGARD THE PROBLEM OF ANTHROPOCENTRISM ARE DOOMED TO FAILURE.
LEE, ~’06 (Wendy Lynne, "On Ecology and Aesthetic Experience: A Feminist Theory of Value and Praxis", Ethics %26 the Environment 11.1 (2006) 21-41, accessed through Project MUSE, September 19, 2011, http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/ethics_and_the_environment/v011/11.1lee.html)
In light of what we now know about the intimacy of the relationships between human
AND
has no place in a morally or politically defensible vision of the future.

==1AC Bingham RR== 


===Contention 1 is Inherency=== 

Over 430 dams have been dismantled thanks to conservationists
NBC 2011 (http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/44554709/ns/us_news-environment/t/largest-dam-removal-aims-bring-salmon-back/~~%23.UAdWrjFWrnM, NBC, msnbc.com and news services, Largest dam removal aims to bring salmon back, ¶ 9/18/2011 2:26:17 AM ET)
There has been an acceleration in dam removal in recent years in the United States
AND
by dams and questioning the safety of the impoundments, especially older ones.

Bayou dam removal triggers their links
Schleifstein 12/13 (Mark Schleifstein; Award winning environmental journalist reporting for NOLA; December 13, 2012; "Removal of dam on Bayou St. John will restore flow of water from Lake Pontchartrain"; http://www.nola.com/environment/index.ssf/2012/12/removal_of_dam_on_bayou_st_joh.html; Kristof)
A team of construction workers used a diamond-embedded sawblade Wednesday morning to begin
AND
Schexnayder, deputy assistant secretary of the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries.


The federal government chose to maintain four dams in the Snake River – despite the recommendation of an impartial judge
William Yardley, writer for New York Times, 4/26/2012 (April 26, 2012, "Now Off Case, Judge Weighs In on Dams", http://www.nytimes.com/2012/04/27/us/judge-says-snake-river-dams-should-go.html)
SEATTLE — A federal judge who spent a decade presiding over one of the most
AND
judge can do. But you can raise hell, and I did."

===Thus the plan=== 

The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration~’s hydro restoration grant program for the removal of its following dams: Ice Harbor, Lower Monumental, Little Goose and Lower Granite

===Contention 2 is Life=== 

The Four dams on the lower Snake River will cause the extinction of salmon, this kills a key food source for Puget Sound orcas
Knickerbocker 07 (Brad Knickerbocker Staff writer of The Christian Science Monitor, Clean energy vs. whales: how to choose?, Christian Science Monitor November 28, 2007, Wednesday, JB)
Dams in the Columbia River Basin have been a major cause of plummeting salmon populations
AND
survival of species such as salmon and killer whales," the scientists wrote.¶

137 species rely on Snake River salmon for survival – including birds, land animals and plants
SOWS 2009 (Save Our Wild Salmon, environmental advocacy group, 3/6/2009 ("Why Restore Wild Salmon?", Save Our Wild Salmon,
http://www.wildsalmon.org/facts-and-information/faq/why-restore-wild-salmon.html)
Salmon and steelhead represent a critical ecological nutrient link between our oceans and our rivers
AND
sea, and again feed the people and wildlife of the Pacific Northwest.


Puget Sound orcas are key to the global ocean ecosystem
National Wildlife Federation 06 ("Orcas on the Edge," 10/1, http://www.nwf.org/News-and-Magazines/National-Wildlife/Animals/Archives/2006/Orcas-on-the-Edge.aspx)
Saving Puget Sound orcas will require cleaning up toxic waste sites, stemming storm-
AND
marine ecosystem. And that ecosystem is two-thirds of our planet."


The neg will attempt to calculate impacts, however this decimates life – we must recalibrate our decision-making away from calculated exploitation of nature toward appreciation of balance and beauty
Lichatowich 1 (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB), "Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis", pp 1-7, google books; Tara)
In earlier times, Indians lived at the mouth of the Pysht River. Several
AND
without salmon retain its appeal as a high-quality environment for people?

Ecological concerns have priority over human ones
Elliott 97 (Herschel Elliott; University of Florida Emeritus Philosophy; February 26 1997; "A General Statement of the Tragedy of the Commons"; http://www.dieoff.org/page121.htm; Kristof)
Third, all systems of ethical beliefs are hypotheses about how human beings can live
AND
its parts — including the needs and interests of human societies and individuals.


===Contention 3 is Relationship=== 

Our relationship to salmon demonstrates our fundamental ecological assumptions
Lichatowich 1 (James, Masters in Fishery Science from Oregon State University, former Marine, Assistant Chief of Fisheries, Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife, Board Member of the Independent Scientific Advisory Board (ISAB), "Salmon Without Rivers: A History Of The Pacific Salmon Crisis", pp 7-8, google books; Tara)
Some people believe that the century-long decline of the Pacific salmon following the
AND
free of the myths that have brought us to the point of crisis.


Vote aff to embrace an ethic that values more than humanity.
Weston 09 (Anthony, "The incompleat eco-philosopher p. 11-13 http://esotericonline.net/docs/library/Philosophy/Environmental%20philosophy/Ethics/Weston%20-%20The%20Incompleat%20Eco-Philosopher.%20Essays%20from%20the%20Edges%20of%20Environmental%20Ethics%20(2009).pdf)
One problem, I argue, is that in an unnoticed but also almost tautological
AND
too—but for the moment I think it will have to do.

Embracement of a more than human world view gives meaning to our existence
Becker 73 (Earnest, The Denial of Death, pg 151-152, Ph.D ins Cultural Anthropology, was a professor the University of California at Berkely, San Franciso State College, and Simon Fraser University, and founder of The Ernest Becker Foundation; Kristof)
But on top of this special burden nature has arranged that it is impossible for
AND
erected outside one~’s own ego is one able to live at all."55

The human-animal distinction underscores all other modes of oppression. The aff needs to be the starting point for emancipatory politics
Kochi, 2009 (Tarik, Sussex law school, Species war: Law, Violence and Animals, Law Culture and Humanities Oct 5.3)//RSW
This reflection need not be seen as carried out by every individual on a daily
AND
The critic of war is thus a critic of war~’s norm-alization.


===Contention 4 is Solvency=== 

Removing the four dams helps salmon and allows boating
CNN 1999
(http://articles.cnn.com/1999-07-26/nature/9907_26_dam.enn_1_ice-harbor-dam-removal-dam-study?_s=PM:NATURE)
The resolution is nonbinding, meaning the Army Corp of Engineers is not required to
AND
better off when they are allowed to operate naturally than in manmade form.
~~[Bell = Scott Bell, program coordinator of conservation and public policy for the American Canoe Association~~]
Our mechanism solves
Schleifstein 12/13 (Mark Schleifstein; Award winning environmental journalist reporting for NOLA; December 13, 2012; "Removal of dam on Bayou St. John will restore flow of water from Lake Pontchartrain"; http://www.nola.com/environment/index.ssf/2012/12/removal_of_dam_on_bayou_st_joh.html; Kristof)
The dam removal will allow water to flow freely from the lake to the southern
AND
aimed at removing outdated dams and restoring historic water flows in coastal areas.

Congress must pay for and approve the project
Betsy Otto 2k, Former Vice Prsident 1999-2011of American Rivers Program, October 2000, "Paying for Dam Removal: A Guide to Selected Funding Sources," American Rivers, http://www.michigandnr.com/publications/pdfs/Fishing/dams/Paying-Dam-Removal.pdf
Specific Federal Congressional Appropriations ¶ A number of federal agencies can be authorized by Congress
AND
of Engineers to remove the Embrey Dam on the Rappahannock River in Virginia.

For an incremental change to occur we must advocate dam removal in the face of political opposition
Bryant 11 (Levi, Prof of Philosophy at Collins College "Morton on Incrementalism" , larvalsubjects.wordpress.com/2011/07/21/morton-on-incrementalism/)
Well no, this is not what arguments against incrementalism are about Tim. The
AND
, by contrast, disempowers by foreclosing the social production of alternative possibilities.

Incremental changes add up. Pragmatism offers achievable goals while helping to furthering a larger paradigmatic shift – specifically true for environmental policy
Hirokawa 2 — Keith Hirokawa, J.D. from the University of Connecticut and LL.M. from the Northwestern School of Law, 2002 ("Some Pragmatic Observations About Radical Critique In Environmental Law," Stanford Environmental Law Journal, Volume 21, June, Available Online to Subscribing Institutions via Lexis-Nexis)
Changes in each instance create entirely new contexts in which more (or less)
AND
pre-existed current environmental law and the alternative paradigms of environmental protection.


This debate can democratize dam removal – this advocacy must expand beyond environmental activists
Hawley 11(Steven, environmental journalist whose work has appeared in High Country News, National Fisherman, OnEarth, and Missoula Independent, Hawley, Steven (2011-03-15). "Recovering a Lost River: Removing Dams, Rewilding Salmon, Revitalizing Communities" (pp. 67-70). Random House Inc Clients. Kindle Edition; Tara)
In addition to this kind of narrow-minded provincialism, loyalty to home breeds
AND
, then, is for all the eyes and ears on the water.

==1AC Berkeley== 

Port dredging with Econ and Heg advantages. E-mail Yennhi for cites.



=Negative= 

==Topicality== 
===T sub=== 
Contextually, substantial transportation infrastructure investment is 48 billion
Giamberardino and Pallasch 10 (Marco and Brian, Co-Chairs of the Water Resource Coalition, January 2010, Water Resource Coalition eNewsletter, http://www.waterresourcescoalition.org/files/contrib/January2010.html)
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">Before the House of Representatives broke for the holidays the Chamber passed the "Jobs for Main Street" Act</span>
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">investments in inland and navigable waterways administered by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. </span>

Substantially must be interpreted in context
Devinsky 2 (Paul, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, IP Update, 5(11), November, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">In reversing a summary judgment of invalidity, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit found </span>
AND
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 11pt;">persons experienced in this field of mechanics, upon reading the patent documents."</span>

==Disadvantages== 


===Politics 1NC=== 
lol politics before the elections... good luck using these cites!

Link hurr

The US is pushing for diplomacy against Iran; however Obama’s political capital is key – failure of diplomacy results in oil spikes, economic collapse, terrorism and war
AP 9/27 (BRADLEY KLAPPER, Associated Press; 9/27/12; “World powers open to more nuke talks with Iran”; http://www.google.com/hostednews/ap/article/ALeqM5i4JXlVlYc2Uu2984WflXHTVdkLKg?docId=3513cce0346a440786ad9b06c0a2cb6a; Kristof)
WASHINGTON (AP) — World powers decided Thursday to lay the groundwork for another
AND
Minister Laurent Fabius, refusing to comment on Netanyahu's call for red lines.

===Elections 1NC 10/27=== 
Last time reading elections for us... so idk how useful these cites will be

Obama won the 3rd debate, this puts him ahead of Romney
Nate Silver, 10/23/2012 (Chief Pollster for the New York Times, “Obama Unlikely to Get Big Debate Bounce, but a Small One Could Matter”; http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/10/23/obama-unlikely-to-get-big-debate-bounce-but-a-small-one-could-matter/, Kristof)
Mr. Obama’s margin of victory in the poll was slightly wider than Mr.
AND
is smaller than Mr. Romney’s average 29-point win in Denver.

Link right hurr

Romney will arm rebels in Syria causing a regional war
Ewen MacAskill, 10/8/2012 (staff writer, "Mitt Romney: arm the Syrian rebels," http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2012/oct/08/mitt-romney-arm-syrian-rebels, Accessed 10/16/2012, rwg)
Mitt Romney will call for an escalation of the conflict in Syria by arming rebels
AND
of the rebels, to restrict the supply of weapons to small arms.

Syrian escalation results in extinction
Lyndon Larouche PAC, 9/27/2012 ("Lavrov Brings in Reality — The Issue is Nuclear War,"
http://larouchepac.com/node/24053, Accessed 10/13/2012, rwg)
In an interview on the Charlie Rose show Sept. 25, Russian Foreign Minister
AND
priority is to save human lives," but others instead seek regime change.

==Counterplans== 

===Lopez=== 
#YOLO

The Federal government should devolve authority to states for transportation
Horowitz 12 (Daniel, defense attorney, "Devolution of Transportation Authority is Solution to Earmark Problem", RS Redstate, http://www.redstate.com/dhorowitz3/2012/05/03/devolution-of-transportation-authority-is-solution-to-earmark-problem/) LL
There is no doubt that many localities are in need of some infrastructure updates.
AND
worried about their state issues, then make transportation a purely state issue.

Lopez counterplan ensures state authority
Bybee 97 (Jay S., Staff- University of Nevada, Las Vegas, ""Insuring Domestic Tranquility: Lopez, Federalization of Crime, and the Forgotten Role of the Domestic Violence Clause", Scholarly Works,
http://scholars.law.unlv.edu/facpub/369, page 3) LL
Lopez promises, at best, to be a limited restraint on Congress~’s power to
AND
what is functionally the same) an express disabling of the United States.

Lopez checks global war – modeling
Calabresi 95 (Steven G., Assistant Prof – Northwestern U., Michigan Law Review, Lexis)
First, the rules of constitutional federalism should be enforced because federalism is a good
AND
legal academy would wake up to the importance of what is at stake.
==Criticism== 
criticism makes it sound so sophisticated

===Ableism=== 
We'll read this K either a) if the plan carries ableist assumptions and/or b) if you call us retarded

===Psychoanalysis=== 
Enemies are only a product of our paranoia – the way we talk about threats as a way of avoiding reflection about the psychoanalytical roots of war turns the case
Stein 3 (Howard, Professor, University of Oklahoma, Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.2 (2003) 187-199 Days of Awe: September 11, 2001 and its Cultural Psychodynamics).
We not only need enemies (Volkan, "Need," "Blood Lines"),
AND
. The psychoanalytic work of comprehending September 11, 2001 is scarcely begun.

The affirmative~’s utopian vision of a peaceful global community will be impossible to realize—necessitating the scapegoating and elimination of the other. Lacanian political intervention is the only way out.
Stavrakakis, 99 (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).
Our age is clearly an age of social fragmentation, political disenchantment and open cynicism
AND
functioning society as a highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).

Our alt is to vote negative to reject the psychological foundations that make war inevitable, and to empathize with the Other.
Byles 3 (Joanna Montgomery, prof of English @ the Univ of Cyprus, Journal for the Psychoanalysis of Culture and Society 8.2 (2003) 208-213, Psychoanalysis and War: The Superego and Projective Identification).
It is here of course that language plays an important role in imagining the other
AND
a state of mind and, most importantly, a way of thinking.

===Nietzsche=== 
Believe it or not it changes almost every round depending on what mood I'm in and how other elements of our strategy work out... It will be recognizable because the 1NC will most likely include cards from Nietzsche

===Foucault=== 
The affirmative takes the object of the population, the management of its mobility, and the care for its life for granted. Assumptions about the "everyone" of the population are the basis for humanity~’s worst wars and necessitate wholesale slaughter in the name of the whole.
Foucault 72 (Michael, Professor of the History of Systems of Thought College De France, The Foucault Reader, pg. 258) LD
Since the classical age, the West has undergone a very profound transformation of these
AND
species, the race, and the large-scale phenomena of population.

Vote negative to criticize the assumptions of the affirmative

===60's Music=== 

What’s the use of concerning ourselves with the economy, if it won’t satisfy our needs?
The Beatles 64 (John Lennon; Paul McCartney; Ringo Starr; George Harrison; 1964; A Hard Day's Night – “Can't Buy Me Love"; Kristof)
Can't buy me love

Our K is an impact turn to the economy:
Losing money gives people freedom; they no longer depend on their financial situation to find meaning to their lives
The Beatles 69 (John Lennon; Paul McCartney; Ringo Starr; George Harrison; 1969; Abbey Road– “You Never Give Me Your Money”; Kristof)
You never give me your money

Our alt is to love the other, the aff solvency or their impacts are inevitable, the only way to give people their identities is through love
The Beatles 69 (John Lennon; Paul McCartney; Ringo Starr; George Harrison; 1969; Yellow Submarine– “All You Need Is Love”; Kristof)
ALL you need is love

==Strategies== 

===Alta=== 

====Round 2 v George Washington (Dredging, structural violence I!)==== 
1NC:
Econ Model CP
Politics
Nietzsche
Case

2NR
Nietzsche

====Round 4 v Timberline (Racism)==== 
1NC:
Foucault
PIC out of plan
Nietzsche
Stavrakakis
Case

2NR:
Stavrakakis
Nietzsche

====Round 5 v idk who it was (Tohono Indians)==== 
1NC:
PIC out of plan
Nietzsche
Narcissism
T sub
PTX

2NR:
PIC out of plan
Narcissism

===Bingham RR=== 

====Round 1 v Bingham HH (Gulf Coast)==== 
1NC:
PIC out of plan
Narcissism
Ableism
T sub
Case

2NR:
Ableism

====Round 5 v Rowland Hall AK (CCS)==== 
1NC:
T pipelines
Apocalyptic Rhetoric
Inflation DA
Fiat DA
Nihilism analytic K
Case

2NR:
Fiat DA

===Berkeley=== 

====Round 1 v Rowland Hall (Ice Breakers)==== 
1NC:
Nietzsche
T (I forgot which)
Politics (TAFTA)
Consult Russia CP (russian rels nb)
Case

2NR:
Consult

====Round 3 v Dougherty (Port Dredging)==== 
1NC:
Privatization CP
Cali DA
TAFTA
Case

2NR:
Presumption

====Round 5 v Bellarmine (CCS)==== 
1NC:
T pipelines
TIGER
TAFTA
Luke K
Case

2NR:
Presumption



[[media type="custom" key="21379326"]]
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]