[[toc]]
=Announcement= 
We will put up stuff after every round. If you want an autograph and/or lock of Sam's hair and cologne sample, feel free to email us at [[mailto:jskoog13@brophybroncos.org|jskoog13@brophybroncos.org]] or swolff13@brophybroncos.org.

In the meantime, here are some inspirational quotes.

"Always go for the knees."

--My dad (upon providing advice for my 3rd grade flag football team)

"I don't use cologne."

--Sam.
=Round 1= 
===**>>>1AC**=== 

**Plan -**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">The United States federal government should develop, demonstrate, and deploy space-based solar power beyond the Earth’s mesosphere. </span>**

CONTENTION ONE - WARMING

Warming is real, anthropogenic and reversible if we act now.
Pew Center 11 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Pew Center on Global Climate Change, The Pew Center on Global Climate Change is as a non-profit, non-partisan, and independent organization dedicated to providing credible information, straight answers, and innovative solutions in the effort to address global climate change. The Center engages business leaders, policy makers, and other key decision makers at the international, national, regional, and state levels to advance meaningful, cost-effective climate policy and action, “Climate Change 101: Understanding and Responding to Global Climate Change,” January 2011, PM)</span>**

__The scientific evidence is unequivocal...__ **__magnitude and rate of climate change.”__**

Most recent evidence concludes warming is real and anthropogenic
Romm 3/26 **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joseph, a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 "Best Blogs of 2010." In 2009, Rolling Stone put Romm #88 on its list of 100 "people who are reinventing America." Time named him a "Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger." Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT, “Nature: Strong Evidence Manmade ‘Unprecedented Heat And Rainfall Extremes Are Here … Causing Intense Human Suffering,’ [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2012/03/26/451605/nature-strong-evidence-manmade-unprecedented-heat-rainfall-extremes-causing-intense-human-suffering/?mobile=nc]], AM) *Study originally conducted by Stefan Rahmstorf, A physicist and oceanographer by training, Stefan Rahmstorf has moved from early work in general relativity theory to working on climate issues. He has done research at the New Zealand Oceanographic Institute, at the Institute of Marine Science in Kiel and since 1996 at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research in Germany (in Potsdam near Berlin). His work focuses on the role of ocean currents in climate change, past and present. In 1999 Rahmstorf was awarded the $ 1 million Centennial Fellowship Award of the US-based James S. McDonnell foundation. Since 2000 he teaches physics of the oceans as a professor at Potsdam University. Rahmstorf is a member of the Advisory Council on Global Change of the German government and of the Academia Europaea. He is a lead author of the paleoclimate chapter of the 4th assessment report of the IPCC. </span>**also modified for gender, denoted by brackets.

__It is__ __**very likely** that...__ __**The time to act is now.**__

<span class="Underline">**Natural variability is an aff brink argument.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Romm 12/5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joe, a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which New York Times columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 “Best Blogs of 2010.″ In 2009, Rolling Stone put Romm #88 on its list of 100 “people who are reinventing America.” Time named him a “Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger.” Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT, “It’s “Extremely Likely That at Least 74% of Observed Warming Since 1950″ Was Manmade; It’s Highly Likely All of It Was,” [[http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2011/12/05/382209/observed-warming-since-1950-was-manmade/]], AM) *Citing Gavin Schmidt, climate modeller at the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York. He has worked on assessing the climate response to multiple forcings, including solar irradiance, atmospheric chemistry, aerosols, and greenhouse gases. He received a BA (Hons) in Mathematics from Oxford University, a PhD in Applied Mathematics from University College London and was a NOAA Postdoctoral Fellow in Climate and Global Change Research. He is a co-chair of the CLIVAR/PAGES Intersection Panel and is an Associate Editor for the Journal of Climate. He has over 90 peer-reviewed publications. </span>

<span class="Underline">Back in 2009, NASA’s Gavin Schmidt was asked... **It is now beyond a reasonable doubt that humans are responsible for most of that warming, and highly likely we are responsible for all of it.**</span>

**Scientific consensus goes aff**
**EDF 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Environmental Defense Fund, leading national nonprofit organization representing more than 700,000 members. Citing Science and the IPCC, as well as other multinational climate organizations, “Scientific Consensus on the Basic Facts of Global Warming,” AM)</span>

**__The most respected scientific ...__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">to startworking on solutionsis now.</span>


**Avoiding 450 PPM is key**

**Hansen ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Climate Scientist at the Goddard Institute for Space Studies at NASA and professor in the department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University, received the Carl-Gustaf Rossby Research Medal which is the highest award for atmospheric research of the American Meteorological Society, Time Magazine’s Top 100 Most influential People, Member of the National Academy of Sciences, PhD in Physics and Astronomy at the University of Iowa (John, “Storms of our grandchildren”, pages 158-160, AS) </span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">Now let us turn... </span>__<span style="background-color: white;">per square meter, restoring the planet’s energy balance, to first approximation.</span>__


<span class="Underline">**Adaptation is useless—avoiding 450 ppm is the only way to avoid catastrophic warming**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Romm ‘10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Joe, PhD in Physics from MIT, senior fellow at American progress, editor of Climate Progress, “Real adaptation is as politically tough as real mitigation, but much more expensive and not as effective in reducing future misery,” Climate Progress, August 27, 2010, PM)</span>

<span class="Underline">Rhetorical </span>adaptation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, however, is a ... have a serious possibility of limiting future climate impacts to a level that one could actually adapt to. </span>

**The first impact is the ocean—**

<span class="Underline">**Warming induces hydrogen sulfide poisoning—destroys the ozone and causes extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Ward 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, PhD, professor of Biology and Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington, paleontologist and NASA astrobiologist, Fellow at the California Academy of Sciences, The Flooded Earth: Our Future in a World Without Ice Caps, June 29, 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the rest of this chapter... quickly decide to open their ears and listen.</span>

**And independently CO2 acidifies the oceans**
<span class="Underline">**Ward 10** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, PhD, professor of Biology and Earth and Space Sciences at the University of Washington, paleontologist and NASA astrobiologist, Fellow at the California Academy of Sciences, The Flooded Earth: Our Future in a World Without Ice Caps, June 29, 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The rate at which carbon dioxide ... we are witnessing now.</span>


**That causes extinction—emissions reductions are critical**

**Romm ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Joe, a Fellow at American Progress and is the editor of Climate Progress, which</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">New York Times</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">columnist Tom Friedman called "the indispensable blog" and Time magazine named one of the 25 “Best Blogs of 2010.″ In 2009,</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Rolling Stone</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">put Romm #88 on its list of 100 “people who are reinventing America.”</span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Time</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">named him a “Hero of the Environment″ and “The Web’s most influential climate-change blogger.” Romm was acting assistant secretary of energy for energy efficiency and renewable energy in 1997, where he oversaw $1 billion in R&D, demonstration, and deployment of low-carbon technology. He is a Senior Fellow at American Progress and holds a Ph.D. in physics from MIT, “Imagine a World without Fish: Deadly ocean acidification — hard to deny, harder to geo-engineer, but not hard to stop — is subject of documentary,” http://thinkprogress.org/romm/2009/09/02/204589/a-sea-change-imagine-a-world-without-fish-ocean-acidification-film/, AM)</span>



__Global warming is “capable of ...__ __dioxide emissions is now.__



**The second impact is methane—**



**CO2 emissions will release it from the tundra and wipe out all life on Earth**

**Atcheson 04** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, former Department of Energy senior policy analyst and geologist, has held a variety of policy positions in several federal government agencies “Ticking Time Bomb,” December 15, 2004)</span>



__The Arctic Council's recent report ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have to act now. </span>

**CONTENTION TWO - SOLVENCY**

**Government funding for 4 satellites solves**
**Shea 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Karen, Master of Arts in Science Technology and Public Policy with Specialty in Space Policy from the George Washington University. Attended the International Space University Summer Session in Cleveland, Ohio. Has a Bachelors degree in Psychology, with minor in Political Science from Seattle University. Tracked the satellite and launch industries at the Futron Corporation, “Why Has SPS R&D Received So Little Funding?” Winter 2010, PM)</span>

__Space solar power ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">our energy needs are met.</span>

**Research is needed to lower initial cost—no tech breakthrough necessary and SPS is safe**
**Betancourt 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Kiantar, third-year student at the University of Maryland School of Law, specializing in environmental and international law. He has a Bachelors degree in Political Science, with a minor in International Affairs, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Maryland, College Park. In Summer 2010, he worked for Voulga & Olmedo, the largest commercial law firm in Asuncion, Paraguay. He is currently working at Enhesa, Inc., an international EHS consulting group, “Legal Challenges Facing Solar Power Satellites” Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter 2010, PM)</span>

__A single solar power ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">precaution for technology on this scale. </span>

**And, government R&D and demonstration of feasibility lead to ComSat adoption**
**Flournoy 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Don, holds Masters and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Texas. He was the Dean of the University College at Ohio University, He was a project manager (1993-96) for university/industry experiments aboard the NASA ACTS satellite. He has taught Satellite Communications since 1984 and been a member of the SSPI since 1986, “SUNSATS: The Next Generation Of COMSATS,” Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter 2010, PM)</span>

__No solar power satellites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span> __alternative energy markets in particular__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

<span class="Underline">**NASA is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gartner 04** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Senior Analyst at Pike Research, Pike Research is a market research and consulting firm that provides in-depth analysis of global clean technology markets. The company's research methodology combines supply-side industry analysis, end-user primary research and demand assessment, and deep examination of technology trends to provide a comprehensive view of these industry sectors, “NASA Spaces on Energy Solution,” Wired, June 22, 2004, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Scientists from around the world will ...</span><span class="Underline">begin launching satellites</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**And, SPS becomes competitive with coal**
**Gomez et al 09** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Raul, Evelyn Panier, Xin Sun and Cornelius Zund, MS and Lt Colonel of the Columbian Air Force and Planning Director of Military Aeronautical Institute, Finance Application Consultant, IT Director at the China Academy of Space and Technology, Control Systems Engineer at Aviya Technologies, “Financial and Organizational Analysis for a Space Solar Power System A business plan to make Space Solar Power a reality,” Paper supervised by Dr. Uche Okongwu, Professor of Logistics at the Touluose Business School, This an academic research project performed by a group of four students of the Aerospace MBA Toulouse Business School – France, July 20, 2009, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the International E... which also end up in the biosphere. </span>

<span class="Underline">**And, that solve warming**</span>
**Hsu 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Feng Hsu, a well respected world expert; former research fellow of Brookhaven National Laboratory in the fields of risk assessment, risk-based decision making, safety & reliability and mission assurances for nuclear power, space launch, energy infrastructure and other high integrity social and engineering systems. He has most recently left NASA and is taking on greater challenges as Sr. VP of the Space Energy Group. Dr. Hsu was until recently head of the NASA GSFC risk management function, and was the GSFC lead on the NASA-MIT joint project for risk-informed decision-making support on key NASA programs, as GPM, LSS and the CxP etc. He was also a leading engineer/scientist in the Shuttle and Exploration Analysis Department at JSC in Houston, and led key projects such as the Shuttle PRA modeling & integration, SLEP and Shuttle upgrade trade studies. Dr. Hsu served on many agency and center expert panels supporting challenging SMA issues, including his key roles in the STS-107 (Space Shuttle Columbia) investigation team, the Return to Flight team, and ECO expert team for the Discovery mission.Dr. Hsu has over 90 publications and is coauthor of two books and co-chair of several technical committees. He is frequently invited as a keynote speaker on many international forums, and is increasingly dedicated to frontier research ranging from human space exploration; solar energy to global collective intelligence and risk based policy-making on emerging environmental and energy security issues. Hsu holds a bachelors degree in Applied Math, masters degree in Operations Research and Statistics and a doctoral degree in Engineering Science. As senior advisory of Aerospace Technology Working Group (ATWG) and a co-founder of Space Development Steering Committee, Dr. Hsu has been a strong advocate for SBSP for years and was instrumental in instigating the 2007 NSSO study on space solar energy and has contributed whole-heartedly to the great human endeavor of harnessing solar energy for sustainable human development., “Harnessing the Sun: Embarking on Humanity's Next Giant Leap,” http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/hsu.html, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">It has become increasingly ... them is not harm to human beings.</span>

**Consensus goes Aff**
**Flournoy 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Don, holds Masters and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Texas. He was the Dean of the University College at Ohio University, He was a project manager (1993-96) for university/industry experiments aboard the NASA ACTS satellite. He has taught Satellite Communications since 1984 and been a member of the SSPI since 1986, “SUNSATS: The Next Generation Of COMSATS,” Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The fact that the... </span>__**our expectations.**__

**Starting __now__ means we have a grid up in time to prevent runaway warming.**
**Schubert 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, received his doctorate in electrical and computer engineering from Purdue University on a GM Fellowship, and worked for 21 years at Delphi Electronics & Safety. While at Delphi he worked in integrated circuits, and in automotive safety electronics, being promoted to Technical Fellow, and serving as the Chairman of the Technology Council. Since 2006, Dr. Schubert has been with Packer Engineering in Naperville, IL working as a consultant and researcher. Schubert is the principal investigator for over three million dollars in grants from several federal and state agencies in areas of renewable energy and space-based manufacturing, “Cost, Organization and Roadmap for SSP,” Online Journal of Space Communication, Winter 2010, PM)*modified for gender, denoted by brackets</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Energy Information Agency ... </span> __or ameliorated.__

**Only SPS can provide enough energy**
**Snead ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Mike, senior member of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) a past chair of the AIAA’s Space Logistics Technical Committee, and the founder and president of the Spacefaring Institute LLC, “The Vital Need for America to Develop Space Solar Power,” The Space Review, May 4, 2009, PM)</span>

__<span style="background-color: white;">The threat of energy scarcity ...</span>____<span style="background-color: white;"> development of SSP be started now. </span>__

**No anchor tenant CP**
**Garretson 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Peter, Lt Col USAF, Chief of Future Technology Branch for the headquarters of the Air Force. In that context he reviewed the most promising and far-term concepts, and participated in forums like the commercial Space Resources Round Table, the AIAA Space Colonization and Space Resources Technical Community, and the National Defense University's Space Power Theory study, “Sky’s No Limit: Space Based Solar Power, The Next Major Step in the Indo-US Strategic Partnership,” IDSA Occasional Paper No. 9, August 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Corporationstry to maximise....</span> __plan is in place.__

**NASA development is a pre-requisite to the private sector.**
**Hickam 07**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Homer, Former Aerospace Engineer at NASA, October 3, 2007, "NASA vs. the far-out space nuts,” JSkoog)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What I'm getting at is </span>__...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> call me the Rocket Boy. </span>

**Demonstration project leads to launch developments**
**Foust 11/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Jeff, editor of the Space Review, “Making the case, again, for space-based solar power,” http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1978/1, AM) Citing John Mankins, IAA study chair</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mankins, though, ...</span> __economically viable.__

**Contention Three is impact framing—**

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war is not an impact** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Tepperman ‘9**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, deputy editor of Newsweek international, “Learning to Love The Bomb; Obama wants to rid the world of nuclear weapons. Why that might be a big mistake,” JSkoog)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The argument that n...</span> __do to avoid it.__

<span class="reality">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Conventional use is far more likely</span>**</span>
<span class="reality">**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Mueller ‘10</span>**</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (John, a professor of political science at Ohio State University, Political Science Quarterly (Think Again: Nuclear Weapons, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2010/01/04/think_again_nuclear_weapons?page=0,0) AS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In his first address...</span> __if they didn't exist.__

<span class="Underline">**Interdependence checks war**</span>
**Deudney et al ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Daniel, professor of political science at John Hopkins, and John Ikenberry, professor of international affairs at Princeton, Foreign Affairs, “The Myth of Autocratic Revival,” http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/63721/daniel-deudney-and-g-john-ikenberry/the-myth-of-the-autocratic-revival, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This bleak outlook is based ... __R__</span>__evivalists acknowledge.__

**Miscalc is impossible**
**Quinlan ‘9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Sir Michael, visiting professor at King's College London, Permanent Under-Secretary at the Ministry of Defence and former senior fellow at the International Institute of Strategic Studies, “Thinking About Nuclear Weapons: Principles, Problems, Prospects,” Oxford University Press, JSkoog)</span>

__One__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> special </span>__form of ...__ __of its conventionally armed launch.__

**No nuclear extinction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Slade ‘11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Stuart, senior aerospace and defense analyst at a US-based defense think tank, Nuclear Winter Is Bunk, http://warreview.blogspot.com/2011/04/nuclear-winter-is-bunk.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bunk is a pretty fair description ... would be shaved so that things tend to the "median" situation."</span>

<span class="Underline">**Massive increases in solar energy non-unique the DA**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sanders 12/16** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Sen. Bernie, Senator from the great state of Vermont, “America Must Not Back Down on Sustainable Energy,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/rep-bernie-sanders/america-must-not-back-dow_b_1153827.html, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We cannot allow long-time opponents o... greenhouse gas emissions. </span>

**SPS solves the impact anyways**
**Medin ‘10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kristin, Chief Industrial Designer, NewSpace DesignLabs, “Disruptive Technology: A Space-Based Solar Power Industry Forecast,” Online Journal of Space Communications, No. 16, Winter 2010, http://spacejournal.ohio.edu/issue16/medin.html, AM) modified for gender—added [hum]</span>

__Despite the high hurdles__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ... </span>__tomorrow with increased global cooperation.__

<span class="Underline">**Even regional wars wouldn’t cause extinction—no scenario meets the threshold.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Dunning ’11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brian, By profession I am a computer scientist, both as a Silicon Valley CTO and as a consulting engineer. My only academic credential that bears any scrutiny is in Writing for Film and Television from University of California, Los Angeles. I also have a credential that doesn't bear any scrutiny — and you'll find it at Thunderwood College. I'm also a member of the National Association of Science Writers. I've written a few books and numerous technical articles. I decided to put this experience to good use, and created the Skeptoid podcast. I'm also one of the featured bloggers on SkepticBlog, the official blog of the prospective TV series The Skeptologists which I host, “Nuclear War and Nuclear Winter,” http://skeptoid.com/episodes/4244, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">So here we get into the ... of setting the public record straight... Who wants to be accused of being in favor of nuclear war?" </span>

===**>>>2AC**=== 


**[SOLVENCY]**

**Can be demonstrated in a year.**
**Costa ’10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Rebecca, sociobiologist whose unique expertise is to spot and explain emerging trends in relationship to human evolution, global markets, and new technologies. Costa joins distinguished business leaders, Nobel Laureates, scientists, innovators and Pulitzer Prize-winning authors from around the world to address growing concerns over dangerous threats such as global warming, pandemic viruses, terrorism, nuclear proliferation and failing public education. A popular speaker at thought-leader and technology conferences as well as major universities, Costa is the former CEO of Silicon Valley start-up Dazai Advertising, Inc. Costa’s clients included technology giants such as Apple Computer, Hewlett- Packard, Oracle Corporation, 3M, Amdahl, Seibel Systems and General Electric. She graduated from the University of California with a BA in Social Sciences. Rebecca Costa lives on the central coast of California, “Can NASA Save a Struggling America?,” http://cleantechnica.com/2010/11/01/can-nasa-save-struggling-america/, AM)</span>

No country has a ..<span class="Underline"> nuclear plant to become operational.</span>

**[WARMING]**

**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Crop yields decreasing now</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">**Gillis 11** - </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Editor at the New York Times citing Dr. Ainsworth, a DOA researcher. Also citing Wolfram Schlenker, economist at Columbia University, and Michael Roberts, economist at North Carolina University, and David Lobell who is the Assistant Professor at Stanford University in Environmental Earth System Science, and a Center Fellow in Stanford's Program on Food Security and the Environment.</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Justin, “A Warming Planet Struggles to Feed Itself, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nytimes.com/2011/06/05/science/earth/05harvest.html?pagewanted=all) AS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Sitting with a group of ...</span> cold season is also shrinking<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.”</span>

**Warming __causes__ famine**
**CNAC ‘7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CNA Corporation, Approved by the Military Advisory Board – GENERAL GORDON R. SULLIVAN, USA (Ret.) Former Chi ef of Staff U.S. Army Chairman, Ibfilitary Advisory Board ADMIRAL FRANK “SKIP” BOWMAN, USN (Ret.) Former Director, Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program; Former Deputy Administrator-Naval Reactors, National Nuclear Security Administration LIEUTENANT GENERAL LAWRENCE P. FARRELL JR., USAF (Ret.) Former Deputy C bief of Stafffor Plans and Programs, Headquarters U.S. Air Force VICE ADMIRAL PAUL G. GAFFNEY II, USN (Ret.) Former President, National Defense University; Former Chi ef of Naval Research and Commander, Naty Meteorology and Oceanography Command GENERAL PAUL J. KERN, USA (Ret.) Former Commanding General, U.S. Army Materiel Command ADMIRAL T. JOSEPH LOPEZ, USN (Ret.) Former Commander-in-Chief, U.S. Naval Forces Europe and of Allied Forces, Southern Europe ADMIRAL DONALD L. “DON” PILLING, USN (Ret.) Former Vice Chief of Naval Operations ADMIRAL JOSEPH W. PRUEHER, USN (Ret.) Former Coinmander.in-C bief of the U.S. Pac!fic Command (PACOÏif) and Former U.S. Ambassador to China VICE ADMIRAL RICHARD H. TRULY, USN (Ret.) Former NASA Administrator, Shuttle Astronaut and the first Commander of the Naval Space Command GENERAL CHARLES F. “CHUCK” WALD, USAF (Ret.) Former Deputy Commander, Headquarters U.S. European Command (USE UCOM) GENERAL ANTHONY C. “TONY” ZINNI, USMC (Ret.) Former Co,nnwnder-in -Chief of U.S. Central Command (CENTCOM) SHERRI W. GOODMAN Executive Director, Military Advisory Board The CNA Corporation Study Team David M. CarariousJr. Ronald Filadelfo Henry Gaffiiey Sean Maybee Thomas Morehouse (National Security and the threat of Climate Change, http://securityandclimate.cna.org/report/National%20Security%20and%20the%20Threat%20of%20Climate%20Change.pdf) AS</span>

__Access to vital resources, ...__ __expected to become hotter and drier__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [7].</span>


**Warming makes disease errywhur**

**Yale Daily News 4/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kirsten Adair, contributing reporter, 11 April 2012“Global warming may intensify disease”, [[http://www.yaledailynews.com/news/2012/apr/11/global-warming-may-intensify-disease/]], SW) </span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There may be ... Yale School of Public Health.</span>

**[PHOTOVOLTAIC CELL CP]**

**Warming is the biggest internal to economic collapse**
**Reals 09 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">a senior news editor and overnight site editor for CBSNews.com, based at CBS News' London bureau (Tucker, U.K. Report: Warming Will Destroy Economy, http://www.cbsnews.com/stories/2006/10/30/world/main2136061_page2.shtml?tag=contentMain;contentBody) </span>

__Unchecked global warming ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">empirically very difficult."</span>

**Turn—SPS turns US into energy exporter, avoids debt**
**Chapman et al 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – geophysicist and astronautical engineer who served as a NASA scientist astronaut during the Apollo ProgramPhil, March, 2011, http://solarhigh.org/Overview.html</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The expected cost of deploying SBSP is ~$7,400/kW, ...</span> __**petroleum**.__

**No impact—the economy is resilient**
<span class="Underline">**Seeking Alpha 11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – quoting Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Tim Duy, 4/1/11, Something to Chew on: The U.S.'s Economic Resilience, http://seekingalpha.com/article/261277-something-to-chew-on-the-u-s-s-economic-resilience)</span>

__With the economy ...____, not other external shocks.__

**[ANTHRO]**

**And—the __role of the ballot__ is to affirm democratic engagement and public responsibility for reducing CO2 emissions---the alt fails to overcome systemic economic patterns that make warming inev**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Torgerson 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Douglas, Professor of Politics, Cultural Studies, and Environmental and Resource Studies at Trent University in Canada, Constituting Green Democracy: A Political Project, The Good Society: Volume 17, Number 2, 2008, MUSE)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 10pt;">The administrative sphere is ... </span>debates that take place in the green public sphere.

**__Floating PIKs bad__---they moot the entire 1ac and eliminate stable points for offense against the alt—shallow debates eviscerate the educational value of the K, any reason the alt could include the plan is a reason the <span class="Underline">Perm to affirm SPS as a method to construct a non-anthropogenic value system for action solves</span>—representing human impacts is not exclusive with their ethic---we recognize that humans have had a harmful impact on our natural environment by pumping CO2 and other pollutants into the air, in order to avoid the acidification of the oceans and human destruction of aquatic life and methane burps, we affirm ethico-political responsibility for our relation to the natural world---**
**<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">PLUMWOOD,PFPHILOSOPHY-UNIVERSITYOFSYDNEY,2 [VAL,</span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Environmental</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">Culture:</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">The</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">ecological</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">crisis</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">of</span>////<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">reason,</span>//<span style="font-family: Times-Roman,serif;">PG.138-40]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Recognition,prudence and survival</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif;">... </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">prudenceasalwaysinstrumentalandegocentricsuggests.</span>

**AND---here’s our value structure---the planet is worth saving, all forms of life should have a chance to experience the world and humans should not destroy natural systems**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Amien </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kacou 8</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WHY EVEN MIND? On The A Priori Value Of “Life”, Cosmos and History: The Journal of Natural and Social Philosophy, Vol 4, No 1-2 (2008) cosmosandhistory.org/index.php/journal/article/view/92/184</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Furthermore, </span>that manner ... <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the subjective/objective distinction was useless—for all we have really done is highlight the correspondence between value and desire. Perhaps, our inquiry should be a bit more complex.</span>

**Management is inevitable- it’s only a question of what kind of intervention is used. Past interventions will result in extinction unless actively reversed**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Levy 99</span>- PhD @ Centre for Critical Theory at Monash
Neil, “Discourses of the Environment,” ed: Eric Darier, p. 215

If the ‘technological fix’ is unlikely to be more ... of those with whom we share this planet, will be decided?

**Anti-management results in mass extinctions**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Soule 95 - Professor of Environmental Studies</span>
Michael E., Professor and Chair of Environmental Studies, UC-Santa Cruz, REINVITING NATURE? RESPONSES TO POSTMODERN DECONSTRUCTION, Eds: Michael E. Soule and Gary Lease, p. 159-160

Should We Actively Manage ... do we look for ethical guidance?

**Specific environmental solutions are key---alt fails**
**Wapner ‘8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul Kevin</span>**,**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Associate Professor and Director of the Global Environmental Politics Program in the School of International Service at American University, “The Importance of Critical Environmental Studies in the New Environmentalism,” Global Environmental Politics, Vol. 8, No. 1, p. 6-7)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To many readers, such ... radical ideas to an already initiated choir.</span>

**SSP key to asteroid detection and deflection.**
**Schwab ‘2**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Martin, director of the Homeland Defense Institute, former fellow with the Space Security Working Group of the Eisenhower Institute, and currently serves on the steering committee of the International Association of Space Entrepreneurs , “The New Viability of Space Solar Power: Global Mobilization for a Common Human Endeavor” 4/15, [[http://web.archive.org/web/20060102081311/www.homeplanetdefense.org/Space+Solar+Power1.pdf]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Economic considerations ... to deal with it.”41 </span>

**Extinction**
**Matheny 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins; Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” [[http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm]], swolff) </span>

__Even if extinction events ...__ __of humanity and those that threaten 100%.__


=Round 2= 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; display: block; font-family: arial,sans,sans-serif; text-align: left;">vs Whitney Young (LIDAR) - T-staffed, Baudrillard, Genealogy of Space K (Kato, Foucault</span>
=Round 3= 

Joe will get the cites up when he can, for now -

Cathedral Prep, Mars Col

Exomillenialism K
Case D

=Round 4= 
===**>>>1AC**=== 

See round one.

===**>>>2AC**=== 

--2AC AT T-STAFFED

<span class="Underline">**We meet**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sherwood ’11** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Brent, manager of Opportunity Development for NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, “Comparing future options for human space flight,” Acta Astronautica Volume 69, Issues 5–6, September–October 2011, Pages 346–353, AM)</span>

<span class="Underline">There is no fundamental reason ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> land uses like agriculture. </span>

**Development is satellites**
**Yamanouchi 03**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, President of the National Space Development Agency (NASDA) in Japan (Shuichiro Yamanouchi, “ [Business leaders] Space and the Global Environment” http://www.japanfs.org/en/pages/011507.html)</span>

__The objective of ...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Global Positioning System) </span>__satellites__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**‘Its’ shows ownership**
**GEGT ‘5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mine, yours, his, hers, ... it belongs to me.)</span>

<span class="Underline">**Their scope is outdated -** </span>**Space exploration includes telepresence and operation – staffed is obsolete**
**Lester 9**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –Ph. D. Research Fellow at the University of works on the Stratospheric Observatory for Infrared Astronomy, providing science and management policy, and is representing the astronomical community on the Lunar Exploration Roadmap effort he serves on the congressionally chartered Astronomy and Astrophysics Advisory Committee (AAAC), which reviews and provides advisory oversight and coordination of both space and ground-based astronomical research at NASA, NSF and DOE (Daniel F., “Visions of exploration” //Space Policy// Volume 25, Issue 4, November 2009, Pages 236-243)AS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What to do? ... </span>__longer a particularly relevant distinction__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Broad definitions key to topic education**
**Vedda, 8**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - senior policy analyst at the Aerospace Corporation's Center for Space. Policy & Strategy (James, Astropolitics, 6:22–49, “</span><span style="font-family: AdvPSBASK-B,serif; font-size: 8pt;">CHALLENGES TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF SPACE EXPLORATION” Ebsco)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Spaceflight, especially involving ... </span> __with the program__

<span class="Underline">**Substantial Checks their limit claims**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alexander, 8** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October ... Congress's priorities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Default to reasonability—Competing interpretations causes a race to the bottom** </span>

--2AC AT INDIA CP

**NASA and DARPA are key to launch infrastructure and research**
**NSSO 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Long term government study on the feasibility of solar power as a provider of US energy (“Space -Based Solar Power As an Opportunity for Strategic Security,” </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.nss.org/settlement/ ssp/library/final-sbsp- interim-assessment-release-01. pdf</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) AS </span>


**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Whether SBSP begins ... </span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">on while at university.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">India can’t develop the tech</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">**Kamal 1** – </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dr. and member of the Consultative Group of Eminent Senior Scientistst, (“Technology Policy in a Vision for the Future”, pg 15)</span>
<span class="highlight2">__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Technology development depends</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">not ... </span>__</span>__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> for that matter. </span>__

**D. Only the plan is modeled**
**Lieberthal and Sandalow ‘9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kenneth, Professor of Political Science and Profes­sor of Business Administration at the University of Michigan. For the 2008-09 academic year he is a Visiting Fellow in For­eign Policy Studies at The Brookings Institution. Dr. Lieberthal served as Special Assistant to the President for National Secu­rity Affairs and Senior Director for Asia on the National Secu­rity Council from August 1998 to October 2000. He has writ­ten and edited fourteen books and monographs and authored about seventy periodical articles and chapters in books. Dr. Lieberthal has a B.A. from Dartmouth College, and two M.A.’s and a Ph.D. in Political Science from Columbia University. and David, Energy & Environment Scholar and a se­nior fellow at the Brookings Institution. He is the author of Freedom from Oil: How the Next President Can End the United States’ Oil Addiction (McGraw-Hill 2007). Mr. Sandalow has served as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, Environment & Science; Senior Director for Environmental Affairs, Nation­al Security Council; Associate Director for the Global Envi­ronment, White House Council on Environmental Quality. His opinion pieces and articles have appeared in the New York Times, Washington Post, Washington Times, Financial Times, International Herald Tribune, Boston Globe, Science and many other periodicals. He is a graduate of the University of Michi­gan Law School (JD) and Yale College (BA Philosophy).</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, “Overcoming Obstacles to U.S.-China Cooperation on Climate Change,” AM)</span>

__China positions ...__ **__path of development.__**


--2AC AT WEAPONIZATION

**Weaponization is inevitable**
**Redifer 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - LtCol, USMC, paper submitted in fulfillment of a degree from the Air War College at Air University (Stephen, “TAKING THE INITIATIVE – PROTECTING US INTERESTS IN SPACE ,” 2/16,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The execution of such ... </span>__polluted the space environment__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Non-unique—X-37B**
**Axe 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(David, independent military correspondent who has reported from Iraq, Afghanistan, East Timor, Lebanon, Somalia, Chad and other conflict zones, “US Starting Asia Space Race?” The Diplomat, July 29, 2010, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A year later, ... Beijing just might have to do the same. </span>

**No link—DoD won’t weaponize space**
**NSSO 08**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The National Space Security Office Space-Based Solar Power Study Group, aka “The Caballeros,” Col Mike Hornitschek, USAF, Col M. V. “Coyote” Smith, USAF, Lt Col Peter Garretson, USAF, Lt Col Paul E. Damphousse, USMC, “Why the US Military is Not Interested In Solar Power Satellites as Weapons,” Acta Astronautica, Spring 2008, PM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">When first confronted ... an open environment.</span>

--2AC AT JV

**No vote until after the election, and by then it won’t happen.**
**Frolov 3/23/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vladimir, the former director of the National Laboratory for Foreign Policy, a Moscow-based think tank, now serves as President of LEFF GROUP, his own government and public communications company. He received his first degree from the Moscow Defense Institute of Foreign Languages and earned a Ph.D. in political science from the Moscow Diplomatic Academy. Mr. Frolov had a distinguished career in the Foreign Service, including postings at the Russian Embassy in Washington D.C. before serving as the Deputy Staff Director of the State Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs and Counsel to the Deputy Chief of the Presidential Administration for Foreign Policy. He is married with two children. Mr. Frolov coordinates the Russia Profile Experts’ Panel as well as contributing comments and articles about Russia’s foreign policy, “ Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Will Russia Graduate From the Jackson-Vanik Amendment?,” [[http://russiaprofile.org/experts_panel/56357/print_edition/]], AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Therefore</span>__, it is highly...__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">mostly obsolete. </span>

**Turn—the only way Jackson Vanik will pass now is with Magnitsky as part of the package—that __internal link turns__ the DA.**
**Washington Post 3/27** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Cost could be high for US-Russia relations in winning repeal of decades-old trade restrictions,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/policy/cost-could-be-high-for-us-russia-relations-in-winning-repeal-of-decades-old-trade-restrictions/2012/03/27/gIQAWo7bdS_story.html]], AM)</span>

Republicans and Democrats ...<span class="Underline"> treaty with Russia. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The deals have been specifically linked.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**WSJ 3/20** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wall Street Journal, “After Jackson-Vanik,” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702304459804577285330434798916.html?mod=googlenews_wsj]], AM)</span>

<span class="Underline">With Russia set ....</span> **pro quo explicit**<span class="Underline">**.** </span>

**No vote __until this summer__.**
**ICTSD 3/21** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development, “US Lawmakers Begin Debate on Russia Trade Restrictions,” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://ictsd.org/i/news/bridgesweekly/128997/]]</span>, AM)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senator Max </span>__Baucus__ <span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">... </span> __trade body,__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> he said. </span>

**No internal link—Obama can just do it himself.**
**Frolov 3/23/12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Vladimir, the former director of the National Laboratory for Foreign Policy, a Moscow-based think tank, now serves as President of LEFF GROUP, his own government and public communications company. He received his first degree from the Moscow Defense Institute of Foreign Languages and earned a Ph.D. in political science from the Moscow Diplomatic Academy. Mr. Frolov had a distinguished career in the Foreign Service, including postings at the Russian Embassy in Washington D.C. before serving as the Deputy Staff Director of the State Duma Committee on Foreign Affairs and Counsel to the Deputy Chief of the Presidential Administration for Foreign Policy. He is married with two children. Mr. Frolov coordinates the Russia Profile Experts’ Panel as well as contributing comments and articles about Russia’s foreign policy, “ Russia Profile Weekly Experts Panel: Will Russia Graduate From the Jackson-Vanik Amendment?,” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://russiaprofile.org/experts_panel/56357/print_edition/]]</span>, AM)</span>

__Ironically, president ...__ __action at any time__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).</span>

**Highway bill contentious and first.**
**Politico 3/28** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Road bill gridlock worries states,” <span style="font-size: 11pt;">[[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0312/74624.html]]</span>, AM)</span>

__If Congress can’t ...__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we’ll have a bill.” </span>

**Russia will always cooperate with us**
**Hahn, CSIS researcher, 4/11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—nonresident senior associate for the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, senior researcher at the Monterey Terrorism Research and Education Program, senior researcher at the Center for Terrorism and Intelligence Studies (Gordon, “Romney's Russia Gambit”, The National Interest, [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/romneys-russia-gambit-6757?page=1]], AS)</span>

__Russia is not ...__ <span style="font-size: 7pt;">over Moscow’s objections.)</span>

**Jackson Vanik is only a technicality now – we’ll still trade with Russia**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span>**Jolly,****12-16-**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">11, “W.T.O. Grants Russia Membership”, New York Times, http://www.nytimes.com/2011/12/17/business/global/wto-accepts-russia-bid-to-join.html, ACC: 12.16.11, p. online</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Obama ... </span>**__the next half-year.”__**

**Relations resilient.**
**Fenenko 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6/21/11, Alexei, leading researcher at the Russian Academy of Sciences' Institute for International Security, “The Cyclical Nature of Russian-American Relations,” http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20110621/164739508.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There is nothing .... </span> __the official level.__

--2AC AT INDIA LAUNCHES DA

**It’s resilient**
**Rajah, 5/16**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – managing director and CIO of Asian equities at Franklin Templeton Investments [Sukumar, “India resilient in spite of inflationary headwinds”, Investment Week, p. 46, proquest, AL]</span>

__India has emerged ...__ __remains positive.__

**Collapse Inevitable- decreasing competitiveness and rampant inflation**
**Schuman** **11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- American author and journalist who specializes in Asian economics, politics and history. Asia business correspondent for TIME Magazine</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Michael, “India’s economy: Headed for trouble?” 1/18/11, [[http://curiouscapitalist.blogs.time.com/2011/01/18/india%E2%80%99s-economy-headed-for-trouble/]], CJC) </span>
__India's predicament is ...__ __it in bad times.__


=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]