[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==1AC Greenhill RR== 
===1AC - Cooperation=== 
__Contention Two is Cooperation:__
The reset is failing– broadening the scope of cooperation solves all alt causes
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fenenko 11</span>
(Alex Fenenko, Leading Research Fellow, Institute of International Security Studies of RAS, “The cyclical nature of Russian-American relations, 6/21/11, [[http://en.rian.ru/valdai_op/20110621/164739508.html]]//GH-Aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">negotiations</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> conducted over 8 - 9 June on … or American diplomacy. Put simply, the tasks assigned two years ago have been completed. The problem is that</span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Moscow and Washington have failed to develop their relations beyond the strategic sphere</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, which is a cause for concern</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>//

//Relations are inevitable, it’s a question of effectiveness – they solve everything//
//Collins and Rojansky '10//
//**(James F. Collins, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program and expert on USSR, Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "Why Russia Matters", 8/18/10,www.carnegieendowment.org/2010/08/18/why-russia-matters/3si**//**GH-aspomer)**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A year</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and a half after</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Barack Obama hit </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… is indispensible</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. As long as </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates participates in the global economy and has interests beyond its own borders, it </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">will have no choice but to maintain relations with Russia. </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And **good relations would be even better**.</span>__

Souring of relations makes war inevitable
Cohen '10
(Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., 4/12/10, "Obama's Approach to Arms Control Misreads Russian Nuclear Strategy", www.heritage.org/research/reports/2010/04/obamas-approach-to-arms-control-misreads-russian-nuclear-strategy//GH-Aspomer)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">At the signing of the START</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> follow-on </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">treaty</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Medvedev reiterated</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> the Russian position </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">that “the treaty can only be viable” if does not “jeopardize the strategic offensive weapons on the Russian …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> “against the aggressor </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">in a critical situation </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">based on</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> [intelligence] </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">evaluation of his intentions</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.”[5] In other words, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia reserves the right to the pre-emptive use of nuclear weapons</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, strategically or tactically.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it makes miscalc likely – START doesn’t solve</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cohen ‘10</span>**//
//**(prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen)**//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Cohen: </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The real concern I have</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> with this "we won the Cold War" triumphalism </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is the mythology that we are safer today than we were when the Soviet Union existed.</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Though it is blasphemous to say so, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">we are not safer for … **will be unstable because the political relationship is bad and growing worse**</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Evidently, no one in the Administration, Congress, or the mainstream media, or, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots. </span>//

//Extinction//
//**Bostrom 2**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">(Nick, PhD Philosophy – Oxford University, “Existential Risks: Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios”, Journal of Evolution and Technology, Vol. 9, March, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The unique challenge of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">existential risks</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Risks in this sixth category </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> a recent phenomenon</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. This is part of the reason why </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it is useful to distinguish them from other risks</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. We have not evolved mechanisms, either biologically or culturally, for managing such risks. Our intuitions and coping strategies have been shaped by our long experience with risks such as dangerous animals, hostile individuals or tribes, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">poisonous foods</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, automobile accidents, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chernobyl</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, Bhopal, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">volcano eruptions</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, earthquakes, draughts, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">World … exchange</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, between India and Pakistan for instance, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> or thwart </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">humankind</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’s</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">potential permanently</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>//

//All your defense is factually incorrect//
//SGR '08//
//(Scientists for Global Responsibility, Autumn 2008, Issue 36, "High-alert nuclear weapons: the forgotten danger", [[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf//GH-Aspomer|www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf//GH-Aspomer]])//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Official denials </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US officials have</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, in the past, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">acknowledged the US LoW capability</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">,12 but have never conceded that LoW is a fundamental part of US operational nuclear policy.13 Russia also will not admit that LoW is central to its operational planning, although a former highranking officer who served in the Soviet General Staff has written that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LoW still is a standard operating procedure in Russia</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">’s Strategic Rocket Force.14 Ironically, the US and Russia are also unwilling to publicly state that they will not employ LoW. It is arguable that a commitment by both nations to abandon LoW and substitute a policy of Retaliatory Launch Only After Detonation (RLOAD)15 would eliminate the possibility of an accidental nuclear war based upon a false warning of attack. RLOAD would also prevent the launch of a nuclear retaliatory strike in the event of an attack with ICBMs armed with conventional …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> into the environment. Taken together, these would be a clear threat to the continued survival of humans and other complex forms of life</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. The scientists who carried out the research on the climatic consequences of nuclear war state that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a nuclear first-strike would be suicidal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, and have called for a new global nuclear environmental treaty.44 </span>//

//Relations collapse inevitable without the aff//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rojansky 9/5</span>**//
//**(Matthew Rojansky, deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Carnegie Endowment, "U.S.-Russia Cooperation Beyond 2012", carnegieendowment.org/2012/09/05/u.s.-russia-cooperation-beyond-2012/drem****)**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The relationship between the U</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> __S__</span>**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and Russia is on hold in 2012</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. The intensity of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">domestic political debate in Russia</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> following disputed national elections and months of public protest, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and in the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">leading up to November’s presidential contest, leaves **little room** for bold initiatives or</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> high-profile summit </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">diplomacy</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. So for now, don’t expect much progress—the best case will be if there is no backsliding, and that outcome is by no means guaranteed. Yet </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…notion of dueling “spheres of influence,</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">” which persists on both sides. Rather, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia and the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">tates </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">can easily find agreement on the need for a peaceful transition from NATO</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> to Afghan-led security, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">and both sides can calibrate their investments in regional cooperation to promote Afghan stability</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">—including Russia’s leadership of the Collective Security Treaty Organization, both sides’ security assist </span>//
//Energy relations declining – they prevent Russia and Iran from forming GOPEC//
//Stent '10//
//(Angela Stent, Ph.D. Director of Center for Eurasian, Russian, and East European Studies at Georgetown, "U.S.-Russian Relations: The Energy Dimension", February 2010, www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf//GH-Aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">On the face of it, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">energy is an issue where the U</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">nited States and Russia **should be able to cooperate** quite effectively. America imports very little Russian energy and it supports diversification of global energy supplies. Russia, the world’s largest producer and exporter of oil</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, with the world’s largest gas reserves, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is a welcome alternative to Middle Eastern oil and gas</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. … societal potential. Recently, President Medvedev has criticized Russia’s excessive reliance on oil and gas exports, saying that he does not want his son to grow up in a country dominated by the energy industry and the corruption it has engendered. Prime Minister Putin, by contrast, has praised “the existing model of development, which hinges on high commodity prices.” Nevertheless, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">for the foreseeable future, **oil and gas will continue to drive the Russian economy and** </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">much of Russian</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **foreign policy**.</span>__
Those pipeline disputes escalate to nuclear war
Engdahl '08
(F. William Engdahl, author and politcal economist, "Nuclear war by miscalculation", 8/14/08, therealnews.com/t2/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=31&Itemid=74&jumival=2050)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">F. WILLIAM ENGDAHL, AUTHOR AND POLITICAL ECONOMIST: What</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> …</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> President Saakashvili to power in Georgia in early 2004 was financed by the US State Department, the National Endowment for Democracy, and various NGOs that all receive money from the US government. So this was what the CIA did in Iran in the '50s or in Guatemala against Arbenz that they do with these NGOs now, called the color revolutions. And that's the operation that brought Saakashvili into power in 2004. So he's essentially a Washington proxy or puppet figure, if you will, and that's how Moscow regards it, and one that is committed to bringing Georgia into NATO, which is extremely provocative.</span>

GOPEC causes Iranian adventurism
The Guardian '08
(Terry Macalister, 8/21/08, "Russia, Iran and Qatar announce cartel that will control 60% of world's gas supplies", www.guardian.co.uk/business/2008/oct/22/gas-russia-gazprom-iran-qatar//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Western concerns about global energy markets hit new heights last night when </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">… commitment to create something in the future</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">," he said. "</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">It's just a first step." </span>__

Extinction
Bosco 06
(David, 7/23/2006. Senior Editor at Foreign Policy Magazine. “Could This Be the Start of World War III?” [[http://usc.glo.org/forums/0016/viewtopic.php?p=403&sid=95896c43b66ffa28f9932774a408bb4b]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ARMAGEDDON </span> __<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Could This Be the Start of World War III? As the Middle East erupts, there are plenty of scenarios for global conflagration</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. By David Bosco, David Bosco is a senior editor at Foreign Policy magazine. July 23, 2006 </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">IT …Israel's American allies. Governments in Syria, Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia face violent street protests demanding retribution against Israel — and they eventually yield, triggering a **major regional war.**</span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ance to Central Asian states, and continuing U.S. counter-terrorism operations in Pakistan.</span>



===1AC – RFE=== 
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention Three is the Russian Far East:</span>__**

**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario One is the Asian Economy:</span>__**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That’s Collapsing Now</span>**

Sampson 9/2
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Pamel Sampson, AP Buisness Writer, 9/2/12, "Asia stocks stalled by global economic uncertaintyPublished: September 2, 2012Read more here: http://www.ledger-enquirer.com/2012/09/02/2186178/asia-stocks-rise-on-expectations.html#storylink=cpy," pg online @ www.ledger-enquirer.com/2012/09/02/2186178/asia-stocks-rise-on-expectations.html//gh-arjun)//</span>**
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">BANGKOK </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">— Asian stock markets …</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> closed for the Labor Day holiday. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Investors around the world will have a number of issues to contend with over the rest of the week, </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">which culminates with Friday's U.S. nonfarm payrolls report for August.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great power war</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Auslin 2k9</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Michael, Resident Scholar @ AEI, Weekly Standard, “Averting Disaster Preventing the worst case scenario in Asia”, </span>****__<span style="color: #1155cc; font-size: 12pt;">http://www.weeklystandard.com/Content/Public/Articles/000/000/016/115jtnqw.asp</span>__****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>**//
//<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 8pt;">AS THEY DEAL WITH a collapsing world … secretariat that would allow for immediate discussions between parties in confrontation. Working with Japan, Australia, and China, the United States can also establish clear procedures to limit humanitarian crises that erupt from internal instability in Asian countries. Perhaps most important, Washington must get clear assurances from its allies that they will stand with us should hostilities erupt and that any aggressor will be met with a united front.</span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Development Key to Asian Economy</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Siberian Times 9/2 </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(The Siberian Times, 9/2/12 "Russia must 'wake the sleeping Siberian tiger', urges Oleg Deripaska,' pg online @ siberiantimes.com/business/opinion/features/russia-must-wake-the-sleeping-siberian-tiger-urges-oleg-deripaska</span>**//**/gh-arjun)**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As APEC leaders gather in Vladivotok this week, businessman Oleg Deripaska is making a strong call for Russia to tap its vast Siberian reserves and angle itself towards the opportunities of Asia. It is time... Oleg Deripaska has been for years one of the most articulate voices in support of further development of Siberia Not for the first time the chairman of Basic Element, and chief executive of Rusal, is positioning himself up as the most articulate and … chiefs underlines how the country's eastern regions are increasingly seen as central to its economic future,' he said. 'Russia's regional and national governments are also prioritising the modernisation of the country's creaking infrastructure. Stronger legal safeguards and frameworks have been put in place. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">'Russia and the wider Asia</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">n region </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">cannot afford to leave</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Siberia and Eastern Russia behind. The demand for infrastructure in Russia must now be met with investment.'</span>__


**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario Two is Oil:</span>__**


Tensions over Middle East oil kill China relations
Bremmer '12
(3/13/12, Ian Bremmer is the president of Eurasia Group, the leading global political risk research and consulting firm, "China's fast-growing Middle East problem", eurasia.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2012/03/13/chinas_fast_growing_middle_east_problem//GH-Aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A growing economic juggernaut and rising political power, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China has </span>__****__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">many …</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Take </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China's ties with Saudi Arabia</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, which </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">provides China with almost one fifth of its oil.</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Beijing's reluctance to support Western-led sanctions on Iran isn't going down well in Riyadh either. Nor has China's decision to veto the U.N. Security Council's Syria resolution, a choice that Beijing claims was intended to prevent the situation on the ground from escalating further. </span>//


//Oil Competition causes U.S.-China War//
//Hatemi 2k7//
//(Peter, Professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, “Oil and Conflict in Sino-American Relations,” China Security, Summer, Volume 3, Number 3//cndi)
__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">Because the economies of both the U</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 5pt;">nited </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 5pt;">tates </span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 12pt;">… either nation are perceived as threatening, the two may be caught in a security dilemma, wherein reciprocation of antagonistic actions may lead to war</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-size: 5pt;">.30</span>



That goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Glaser 11</span>
(Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University, Will China's Rise Lead to War? Subtitle: Why Realism Does Not Mean Pessimism, Foreign Affairs, March/April, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">ACCOMMODATION ON TAIWAN? The prospects for avoiding intense …. A U.S. attempt to preserve its ability to defend Taiwan, meanwhile, could fuel a conventional and nuclear arms race. Enhancements to U.S. offensive targeting capabilities and strategic ballistic missile defenses might be interpreted by China as a signal of malign U.S. motives, leading to further Chinese military efforts and a general poisoning of U.S.-Chinese relations.</span>

===1AC – Solvency=== 
__Contention Five is Solvency:__
Aff would connect the world and lock in global trade
Barry '11
(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, DC, "M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", 10/4/11, www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada//GH-Aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">This paper investigates potential avenues of encouraging the United States and Canada (federal and local governments as well as their business and NGO communities) to consider building in stages </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a Bering Strait tunnel,</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> connecting Alaska and Russia</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Given that a significant government-funded phase one feasibility …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">global investment in peace and mutual security that would bring clear-cut long-term benefits at a cost certainly far less than conducting wars to maintain security. </span>__//

//The Aff cements long term cooperation//
//Barry '11//
//(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summite Council for World Peace, 10/4/11, "Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Projectin the United States and Canada", www.interbering.com/Advancing-Bering-Strait-Tunnel.html//GH-aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The Russian Impact on the U.S. and Canada Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational stage, stages two and three of creating a Bering Strait crossing really involve Russia. Frankly, there is no reason to lay track in Alaska between Fairbanks and Nome unless there is clear intent to connect to the Russian rail system. Privately, one senior Alaskan political …</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> It should be seen as a great global task of permanent **peace-building.** </span>__

The Aff allows for US investment in the Russian Far East – this is essential to making the reset viable
**Douglas 2k10**
**(Rachel, “Russia Seeks To Develop Far East; Invites U.S. Role,” pg online @** [[http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html|**http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html**]] **//ghs-ef)//**
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">An Invitation to the U.S.A. A review of late-2009 government documents and press from Russia's Far East ..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> U.S. Governments as the greatest infrastructure project of the 21st century</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. In the long term, completion of this Transcontinental Railway to Alaska will make it possible to diversify the raw-materials orientation of the Magadan Region's economy, with the creation in the city of Magadan of a new, multimodal transportation node, through which freight flows connecting Canada and the U.S.A. with the Pacific nations will pass. This means the railway, first and foremost, but also a role for Magadan Region in a Transarctic Air Corridor, connecting America, Southeast Asia, and Australia by the shortest routes; and it means the development and rebirth of the importance of the Port of Magadan on the Sea of Okhotsk."</span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Aff solves for RFE development, jumpstarts Russia’s econ, and attracts investors </span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Razbeg 07</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(VICTOR RAZBEG In Deputy Chairman of the State Research Institution «Council for Study of Productive Forces» (SOPS), Vice-President of the IBSTRG International Corporation, International Conference, </span>****__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Intercontinental Eurasia-America Transport Link VIA the Bering Strait</span>__****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, pg online @ www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/2007_20-29/2007-24/pdf/forum_7.pdf</span>**//**gh-arjun)**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The multimodal route will facilitate opening access to the world’s largest hydro power.. ensuring the economic and socio-political integrity of Russia’s territory and strengthening the geopolitical influence of our country.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Aff balances out global energy supplies and prevents competition by extricating the US from Middle East oil disputes</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mickler '10</span>**
**(Michael L. Mickler, Journal of Unification Studies Vol 11 p. 211, "The Bering Strait and Korea-Japan Tunnel Projects: A Strategic Planning Model", www.journals.uts.edu/volume-xi-2010t/370-the-bering-strait-and-korea-japan-tunnel-projects-a-strategic-planning-model-.html//GH-aspomer)//**
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Strategic Objectives </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This section lays out three major </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">strategic </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…providing for India and China, and Siberia providing for North America, Korea, and Japan </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">rather than the present struggle of all-against-all.[11] </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The key to this</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, of course, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">is implementation of the Bering Strait link.</span>__//

//The Plan creates the necessary motivations for the plan while avoiding your disads//
//Burroughs 2k9//
//(Craig Burroughs MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School, B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University, is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads pg online @ [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html]]// ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">FUNDING POSSIBILITIES </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The big question in any multi-nation infrastructure …Century land grant donors did. They would also be earning interest on their investment in the railroad’s bonds.</span>__

The tunnel is feasible and can be up and running in ten years – it will eventually connect the entire world
Cerny '07
(Louis T. Cerny, former Executive Director of the American Railway Engineering Association, "No Technical Limits to Bering Strait Project", 7/6/07, www.larouchepub.com/other/2007/3427cerny_on_bst.html//GH-Aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> If someone would have asked me whether the distance from Acapulco, Mexico to Bombay, India was shorter via an all water route…</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> is not too grandiose</span>__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">, since it would link by land transport all the continents of the world except Australia and Antarctica. </span>



===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should issue land grants for the development of a Bering Strait Rail.

==1AC TFA== 
1AC - Cooperation
__Contention One is Cooperation:__
Russia Relations Collapsing Now – New agenda is key
Graham 12/5
(Dr. Thomas Graham, Managing Director at Kissinger Associates Inc where he focuses on Russian and Eurasian affairs, Former Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia on the National Security Council, Worked at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, PHD from Harvard, Professor at Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale University, "Do US-Russia Relations Have a Future in Northeast Asia" 12/5/12 pg online @ russialist.org/wordpress/do-u-s-russian-relations-have-a-future-in-northeast-asia//gh-arjun)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Does U.S.-Russian cooperation have a future?.....</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">policy-makers’ mental map of Northeast Asia</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Strategic Importance of Northeast Asia </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The strategic importance of Northeast Asia cannot be overstated. </span>__//

//Reset is failing –//
//Cohen 1/2//
//(Stephen Cohen, professor of Russian Studies and History at NYU and Princton University, RT, 1/2/13 pg online @ www.bsr-russia.com/en/politics/item/2634-us-russia-plunging-into-new-cold-war.html//gh-arjun)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ‘reset’ in relations …..**we have been in 20 years.**</span>__
Strong US-Russian relations solve nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levgold ‘03</span>
(Robert, National Interest, Winter 02/03)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, without a great deal of imagination one can ……</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S.-Russian relations</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. So, we are brought back to the fundamental choices facing Russia and the United States. We are about to see how far Russia is prepared to go toward a deep and lasting partnership with the United States, and how much the United States is prepared to do to make it possible. </span>
And, we solve –
First is Symbolism
Barry '11
(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, DC, "M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", 10/4/11, www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada//GH-Aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper investigates potential avenues of encouraging the United States and Canada (federal and local governments as well as their business and NGO communities) to consider building in stages </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a Bering Strait tunnel, …..</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as well as Canada and China) as an historic task that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">will cement their ties for the long-term</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and bridge not only former adversaries but entire continents and hemispheres. It should be seen as a great global task of permanent **peace-building.** </span>__//




//It’s the most important symbol//
//Hickel 2k7//
//(Walter J. Hickel, Former Governor of Alaska and Former US Secretary of Interior in the Nixon Administration, 2007 pg online @ spanish.larouchepac.com/files/pdfs/0612_Bering.pdf//)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For years, philosophers have dreamed of building a new world. My belief is that the way to build a new world is to actually build it. It begins with the optimists and the visionaries, like those gathered here. Then we need leaders who can make decisions. So the engineers can step forward. And the skilled workers. Tens of thousands, even millions, can get involved. It’s time to re-write the old slogan, “Workers of the world unite.” It’s time to proclaim, “Workers, unite the world.” We have gathered today to discuss the prospects for </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the creation of a Multi-Modal Transport Corridor via …….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Alaska did it with the great trans-Alaska oil pipeline. These modern wonders mobilized our people, gave them a challenge, and a goal. And so will the Eurasia-North America transport corridor. In fact, I believe it will be great for the world environment. Because there will be no answer to pollution until we find an answer to poverty. That truth is as real as the Ten Commandments.</span>

Second is long term cooperation
Douglas 2k10
(Rachel, “Russia Seeks To Develop Far East; Invites U.S. Role,” pg online @ [[http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html|__http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html__]] //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An Invitation to the U.S.A. A review of late-2009 government documents and press from Russia's Far East regions demonstrates that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">officials</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> there </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> indeed </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">planning for the Bering Strait crossing.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The review by EIR also highlights that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian leaders are eager for the United States to join in the real physical economic development of the ......</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a Transarctic Air Corridor, connecting America, Southeast Asia, and Australia by the shortest routes; and it means the development and rebirth of the importance of the Port of Magadan on the Sea of Okhotsk."</span>//
//Declining relations causes nuclear war – makes miscalculation more likely and deterrence doesn’t check//
//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barrett et al ’13 – researchers at various risk think tanks</span>**//
//(Anthony M. Barrett, Seth D. Baum, and Kelly R. Hostletler, prominent members/researchers at the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions at Columbia, and the Department of Geography at Penn State, “Analyzing and Reducing the Risks of Inadvertent Nuclear War Between the United States<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and Russia”, forthcoming in Science and Global Security. This version dated 6 January 2013.)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War involving significant fractions of the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">which are by far the largest of any nations,</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">could have globally catastrophic effects such ….nations more likely to </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">misinterpret events as attacks</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ 60,61,62,63</span>//

//Yes escalation – declining relations lowers the threshold for nuclear use//
//(high alert, first strike, broad studies prove good relations reassure)//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barrett et al ’13</span> – researchers at various risk think tanks//
//(Anthony M. Barrett, Seth D. Baum, and Kelly R. Hostletler, prominent members/researchers at the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions at Columbia, and the Department of Geography at Penn State, “Analyzing and Reducing the Risks of Inadvertent Nuclear War Between the United States¶ and Russia”, forthcoming in Science and Global Security. This version dated 6 January 2013.)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The decision procedures …. technical features of early warning¶ systems and nuclear postures.</span>__//
//All your defense is factually incorrect//
//SGR '08//
//(Scientists for Global Responsibility, Autumn 2008, Issue 36, "High-alert nuclear weapons: the forgotten danger", [[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf/GH-Aspomer|www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf//GH-Aspomer]])//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Official denials </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US officials have</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in the past, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">acknowledged the US LoW capability</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,12 but have never conceded that LoW is a fundamental part of US operational nuclear policy.13 Russia also will not admit that LoW is central to its operational planning, although a former highranking officer who served in the Soviet General Staff has written that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LoW still is a standard operating ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> consequences of nuclear war state that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a nuclear first-strike would be suicidal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and have called for a new global nuclear environmental treaty.44 </span>//
//Separate from general relations, energy relations are collapsing now – plan solves//
//Stent '10//
//(Angela Stent, Ph.D. Director of Center for Eurasian, Russian, and East European Studies at Georgetown, "U.S.-Russian Relations: The Energy Dimension", February 2010, www.amacad.org/russia/russiaConference.pdf//GH-Aspomer)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On the face of it, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">energy is an issue where the United …..</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">a successful U.S.-Russian energy dialogue will have to devise creative ways of transcending current structural impediments.</span>__**
Warming is real and an existential risk – outweighs small nuclear wars
Deibel 7
(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is one major existential threat</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">global … the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 3: </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysprosium Supply Decreasing and Demand Increasing Now</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Mackowski 12</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Steve Mackowski, Technical Director for Hastings Rare Metal LTD, "GUEST POST: How looming dysprosium shortages could threaten the clean-tech dream," 4/27/12 pg online @ blog.metal-pages.com/2012/04/27/guest-post-how-looming-dysprosium-shortages-could-threaten-the-clean-tech-dream//gh-arjun)//</span>**
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Western world is moving ……… increasing transport needs.</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dysprosium production race is on!</span>__//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alaska key to Dysprosium </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Epler 10 </span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Patti Epler, Alaska Dispatch, 2010, "Rare earth elements: Alaska’s resource future?," pg online @ www.alaskadispatch.com/article/rare-earth-elements-alaska-s-resource-future?page=full</span>**//**gh-arjun)**
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ketchikan's dysprosium mother lode Major deposits of REEs are known to be in Idaho, Montana, Wyoming and California, near the Nevada border, where a company called Molycorp just revitalized an old mine with a $531 million investment. But</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> as often happens when it ….. warrants state assistance</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in the form of incentives, such as providing land for processing facilities.</span>

The Bering Strait Project jumpstarts Alaskan mineral development
Dr. Cooper and Freeman 2k7
(Richard Freeman and Dr. Hal Cooper, an engineer and infrastructure specialist, “Infrastructure Corridors Will Transform Economy,” pg online @ [[http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n37-20070921/26-31_737.pdf|__http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n37-20070921/26-31_737.pdf__]] //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Global Development The Alaska-Canada railroad corridor, contemporaneous with the construction of a rail corridor from the Baikal Amur Mainline to Uelen, Russia—both </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">leading vectors of the Bering Strait project—would bring about a profound and enduring change in the world economy</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…….</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">war-avoidance footing. </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The forceful implementation of Lyndon LaRouche’s New Bretton Woods monetary system, as the present financial system blows to pieces, creates the unique historical moment to bring the Bering Strait project into existence.</span>//

//Chinese rare earth monopoly causes world war three//
//Anthony 11//
//(Sebastian Anthony, Lead editor at Ziff Davis, Inc. Owner at SA Holdings Past Columnist at Tecca Editor at Aol (Weblogs, Inc) Education University of Essex Extreme Tech, "Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China," 2011 pg online @ www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2//gh-arjun)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The doomsday event that everyone is praying will never come to pass,….. **III.** </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The alternate, ecological point of view, is that we’re simply living beyond the planet’s means. Either way, strategic and logistic planning to make the most of scarce metals and minerals is now one of the most important tasks that face governments and corporations. Even if large rare earth deposits are found soon, or we start recycling our gadgets in a big way, the only real solution is to somehow lessen our reliance on a finite resource. Just like oil and energy, this will probably require drastic technological leaps. Instead of reducing the amount of tantalum used in capacitors, or indium in LCD displays, we will probably have to discover completely different ways of storing energy or displaying images. My money’s on graphene.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysprosium key to Clean Tech and Wind</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Hoenderdaal 2011</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Alexander Willem Hoenderdaal, Fraunhofer Institute for System and Innovation Research, Ultrecht University, Netherlands, "Can a dysprosium shortage threaten the green economy?," 2011 pg online @ nws.chem.uu.nl/publica/Publicaties%202011/NWS-S-2011-18.pdf//gh-arjun)//</span>**
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Possible oil scarcities and related increases in oil prices, ….. hybrid and electric vehicles </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">until 2050.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clean Tech Solves Extinction </span>**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leeb</span>__****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, 2004</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">president of Leeb Capital Management, (Stephen and Donna, </span>**//**The Oil Factor//:// Protect Yourself and Profit from the Coming Oil Crisis//, pg 205)//**
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Those words resonated with us. And as we thought about them, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it seemed….of weapons-grade plutonium.</span>__//


//Current Energy Grid is susceptible – Wind energy is key to US energy security//

//Dr. Sovacool, & Cooper, 7 – *Senior Research Fellow for the Network for New Energy Choices in New York and Adjunct Assistant Professor at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University in Blacksburg, VA and  **Executive Director of the Network for New Energy Choices**//
//**(Benjamin K. Sovacool, also a Research Fellow at the Centre for Asia and Globalization at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Christopher Cooper, Sustainable Development Law & Policy, “State Efforts to Promote Renewable Energy: Tripping the Horse with the Cart?” Fall 2007, 8 Sustainable Dev. L. & Pol'y 5, Lexis-Nexis Academic)**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVING ENERGY SECURITY </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second,…… security of the nation's electric infrastructure by forcing more technologies into the portfolio of all American utilities.</span>__**//

//**And, the plan is key to global renewables - these transmission lines would allow renewable energy to be exported world-wide and independently stabilize the grid**//
//**Michler 2k11**//
//**(Andrew, “Russia Green Lights $65 Billion Siberia-Alaska Rail and Tunnel to Bridge the Bering Strait!,” pg online @ [[http://inhabitat.com/russia-green-lights-65-billion-siberia-alaska-rail-and-tunnel-to-bridge-the-bering-strait/]]**// **ghs-ef)**
**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">In what could certainly be one of the boldest infrastructure developments ever announced, the Russian Government has given the go-ahead to build a transcontinental railway linking Siberia with North America. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The massive undertaking …..economic growth.</span>__**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, even a Small grid failure brings down the entire system – impact is chemical plant explosions which are worse than atomic bombs</span>

Latynina 2003
Yulia Latynina, journalist for Novaya Gazeta[World Press Review (VOL. 50, No. 11) www.worldpress.org/Americas/1579.cfm ]
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The scariest thing ……… </span>__**__civilization could be as lethal as the weapons themselves__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Last week, a significant and major addition was made to the lesson of Sept. 11: The actions of terrorists can’t always be distinguished from the actions of a drunken dispatcher or random lightning.</span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, mass nuclear waste release has the environmental impact of a nuclear war</span>
Ayala ‘3
**(Leah Ayala, “Nuclear Power Companies the Department of Energy: A Legal Remedy Magnifying Nuclear Ends”, Nevada Law Journal, Winter 2002, LexisNexis)**
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A very small amount ……..</span>__Management Committee).**

**Plan Text**
**The United States federal government should issue land grants for the development of a Bering Strait Rail.**
**Solvency**
**__Contention Three is Solvency:__**
**Land grants create the necessary motivations for the plan while avoiding your disads**
**Burroughs 2k9**
**(Craig Burroughs MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School, B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University, is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads pg online @ [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html]] //ghs-ef)//**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FUNDING POSSIBILITIES </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The big question in any multi-nation….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. All told, these sources</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">could provide a substantial flow of cash to aid in completion of the overall project</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//**
**//The tunnel is feasible and can be up and running in ten years – it will eventually connect the entire world//**
**//Cerny '07//**
**//(Louis T. Cerny, former Executive Director of the American Railway Engineering Association, "No Technical Limits to Bering Strait Project", 7/6/07, www.larouchepub.com/other/2007/3427cerny_on_bst.html//GH-Aspomer)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If someone would have asked me …., </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">perhaps even a name such as the World Peace Tunnel is not too grandiose</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, since it would link by land transport all the continents of the world except Australia and Antarctica. </span>
==1AC NDCA Octos== 
===Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should issue land grants for the development of a Bering Strait Rail.
===1AC - Cooperation=== 
__Contention One is Cooperation:__
Russia Relations Collapsing Now – New agenda is key
Graham 12/5
(Dr. Thomas Graham, Managing Director at Kissinger Associates Inc where he focuses on Russian and Eurasian affairs, Former Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia on the National Security Council, Worked at Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, PHD from Harvard, Professor at Jackson Institute for Global Affairs at Yale University, "Do US-Russia Relations Have a Future in Northeast Asia" 12/5/12 pg online @ russialist.org/wordpress/do-u-s-russian-relations-have-a-future-in-northeast-asia//gh-arjun)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Does U.S.-Russian cooperation have a future?.....</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">policy-makers’ mental map of Northeast Asia</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Strategic Importance of Northeast Asia </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The strategic importance of Northeast Asia cannot be overstated.</span>__//

//Reset is failing –//
//Cohen 1/2//
//(Stephen Cohen, professor of Russian Studies and History at NYU and Princton University, RT, 1/2/13 pg online @ www.bsr-russia.com/en/politics/item/2634-us-russia-plunging-into-new-cold-war.html//gh-arjun)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The ‘reset’ in relations …..**we have been in 20 years.**</span>__
Strong US-Russian relations solve nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Levgold ‘03</span>
(Robert, National Interest, Winter 02/03)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Additionally, without a great deal of imagination one can ……</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">U.S.-Russian relations</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. So, we are brought back to the fundamental choices facing Russia and the United States. We are about to see how far Russia is prepared to go toward a deep and lasting partnership with the United States, and how much the United States is prepared to do to make it possible.</span>
And, we solve –
First is Symbolism
Barry '11
(Mark P. Barry, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, Washington, DC, "M.P. Barry: Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada", 10/4/11, www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada//GH-Aspomer)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This paper investigates potential avenues of encouraging the United States and Canada (federal and local governments as well as their business and NGO communities) to consider building in stages </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a Bering Strait tunnel, …..</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (as well as Canada and China) as an historic task that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">will cement their ties for the long-term</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">, and bridge not only former adversaries but entire continents and hemispheres. It should be seen as a great global task of permanent **peace-building.**</span>__//




//It’s the most important symbol//
//Hickel 2k7//
//(Walter J. Hickel, Former Governor of Alaska and Former US Secretary of Interior in the Nixon Administration, 2007 pg online @ spanish.larouchepac.com/files/pdfs/0612_Bering.pdf//)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For years, philosophers have dreamed of building a new world. My belief is that the way to build a new world is to actually build it. It begins with the optimists and the visionaries, like those gathered here. Then we need leaders who can make decisions. So the engineers can step forward. And the skilled workers. Tens of thousands, even millions, can get involved. It’s time to re-write the old slogan, “Workers of the world unite.” It’s time to proclaim, “Workers, unite the world.” We have gathered today to discuss the prospects for </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">the creation of a Multi-Modal Transport Corridor via …….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Alaska did it with the great trans-Alaska oil pipeline. These modern wonders mobilized our people, gave them a challenge, and a goal. And so will the Eurasia-North America transport corridor. In fact, I believe it will be great for the world environment. Because there will be no answer to pollution until we find an answer to poverty. That truth is as real as the Ten Commandments.</span>

Second is long term cooperation
Douglas 2k10
(Rachel, “Russia Seeks To Develop Far East; Invites U.S. Role,” pg online @ [[http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html|__http://www.larouchepub.com/other/2010/3702rus_invite_us.html__]] //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">An Invitation to the U.S.A. A review of late-2009 government documents and press from Russia's Far East regions demonstrates that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">officials</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> there </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">are</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> indeed </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">planning for the Bering Strait crossing.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The review by EIR also highlights that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russian leaders are eager for the United States to join in the real physical economic development of the ......</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a Transarctic Air Corridor, connecting America, Southeast Asia, and Australia by the shortest routes; and it means the development and rebirth of the importance of the Port of Magadan on the Sea of Okhotsk."</span>//

//Declining relations causes nuclear war – makes miscalculation more likely and deterrence doesn’t check//
//**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barrett et al ’13 – researchers at various risk think tanks</span>**//
//(Anthony M. Barrett, Seth D. Baum, and Kelly R. Hostletler, prominent members/researchers at the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions at Columbia, and the Department of Geography at Penn State, “Analyzing and Reducing the Risks of Inadvertent Nuclear War Between the United States<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and Russia”, forthcoming in Science and Global Security. This version dated 6 January 2013.)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">War involving significant fractions of the U.S. and Russian nuclear arsenals</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">which are by far the largest of any nations,</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">could have globally catastrophic effects such ….nations more likely to </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">misinterpret events as attacks</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">¶ 60,61,62,63</span>//

//Yes escalation – declining relations lowers the threshold for nuclear use//
//(high alert, first strike, broad studies prove good relations reassure)//
//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barrett et al ’13</span> – researchers at various risk think tanks//
//(Anthony M. Barrett, Seth D. Baum, and Kelly R. Hostletler, prominent members/researchers at the Global Catastrophic Risk Institute, Center for Research on Environmental Decisions at Columbia, and the Department of Geography at Penn State, “Analyzing and Reducing the Risks of Inadvertent Nuclear War Between the United States¶ and Russia”, forthcoming in Science and Global Security. This version dated 6 January 2013.)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The decision procedures …. technical features of early warning¶ systems and nuclear postures.</span>__//

//All your defense is factually incorrect//
//SGR '08//
//(Scientists for Global Responsibility, Autumn 2008, Issue 36, "High-alert nuclear weapons: the forgotten danger", [[http://www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf/GH-Aspomer|www.nucleardarkness.org/include/nucleardarkness/files/high-alert_nuclear_weapons_the_forgotten_danger.pdf//GH-Aspomer]])//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Official denials </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US officials have</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, in the past, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">acknowledged the US LoW capability</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,12 but have never conceded that LoW is a fundamental part of US operational nuclear policy.13 Russia also will not admit that LoW is central to its operational planning, although a former highranking officer who served in the Soviet General Staff has written that </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">LoW still is a standard operating ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> consequences of nuclear war state that </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a nuclear first-strike would be suicidal</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and have called for a new global nuclear environmental treaty.44</span>//


===**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysprosium</span>**=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysprosium Supply Decreasing and Demand Increasing Now</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Mackowski 12</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Steve Mackowski, Technical Director for Hastings Rare Metal LTD, "GUEST POST: How looming dysprosium shortages could threaten the clean-tech dream," 4/27/12 pg online @ blog.metal-pages.com/2012/04/27/guest-post-how-looming-dysprosium-shortages-could-threaten-the-clean-tech-dream//gh-arjun)//</span>**
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Western world is moving ……… increasing transport needs.</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The dysprosium production race is on!</span>__//


//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alaska key to Dysprosium</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Epler 10</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Patti Epler, Alaska Dispatch, 2010, "Rare earth elements: Alaska’s resource future?," pg online @ www.alaskadispatch.com/article/rare-earth-elements-alaska-s-resource-future?page=full</span>**//**gh-arjun)**
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Ketchikan's dysprosium mother lode Major deposits of REEs are known to be in Idaho, Montana, Wyoming and California, near the Nevada border, where a company called Molycorp just revitalized an old mine with a $531 million investment. But</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> as often happens when it ….. warrants state assistance</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> in the form of incentives, such as providing land for processing facilities.</span>

The Bering Strait Project jumpstarts Alaskan mineral development
Dr. Cooper and Freeman 2k7
(Richard Freeman and Dr. Hal Cooper, an engineer and infrastructure specialist, “Infrastructure Corridors Will Transform Economy,” pg online @ [[http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n37-20070921/26-31_737.pdf|__http://www.larouchepub.com/eiw/public/2007/eirv34n37-20070921/26-31_737.pdf__]] //ghs-ef)//
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Global Development The Alaska-Canada railroad corridor, contemporaneous with the construction of a rail corridor from the Baikal Amur Mainline to Uelen, Russia—both </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">leading vectors of the Bering Strait project—would bring about a profound and enduring change in the world economy</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…….</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">war-avoidance footing. </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The forceful implementation of Lyndon LaRouche’s New Bretton Woods monetary system, as the present financial system blows to pieces, creates the unique historical moment to bring the Bering Strait project into existence.</span>//

//Chinese rare earth monopoly causes world war three//
//Anthony 11//
//(Sebastian Anthony, Lead editor at Ziff Davis, Inc. Owner at SA Holdings Past Columnist at Tecca Editor at Aol (Weblogs, Inc) Education University of Essex Extreme Tech, "Rare earth crisis: Innovate, or be crushed by China," 2011 pg online @ www.extremetech.com/extreme/111029-rare-earth-crisis-innovate-or-be-crushed-by-china/2//gh-arjun)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The doomsday event that everyone is praying will never come to pass,….. **III.** </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The alternate, ecological point of view, is that we’re simply living beyond the planet’s means. Either way, strategic and logistic planning to make the most of scarce metals and minerals is now one of the most important tasks that face governments and corporations. Even if large rare earth deposits are found soon, or we start recycling our gadgets in a big way, the only real solution is to somehow lessen our reliance on a finite resource. Just like oil and energy, this will probably require drastic technological leaps. Instead of reducing the amount of tantalum used in capacitors, or indium in LCD displays, we will probably have to discover completely different ways of storing energy or displaying images. My money’s on graphene.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dysprosium key to Clean Tech and Wind</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Hoenderdaal 2011</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Alexander Willem Hoenderdaal, Fraunhofer Institute for System and Innovation Research, Ultrecht University, Netherlands, "Can a dysprosium shortage threaten the green economy?," 2011 pg online @ nws.chem.uu.nl/publica/Publicaties%202011/NWS-S-2011-18.pdf//gh-arjun)//</span>**
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Possible oil scarcities and related increases in oil prices, ….. hybrid and electric vehicles </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">until 2050.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clean Tech Solves Extinction</span>**//
//**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Leeb</span>__****<span style="font-size: 9pt;">, 2004</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">president of Leeb Capital Management, (Stephen and Donna, </span>**//**The Oil Factor//:// Protect Yourself and Profit from the Coming Oil Crisis//, pg 205)//**
//<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Those words resonated with us. And as we thought about them, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">it seemed….of weapons-grade plutonium.</span>__//

Warming is real and an existential risk – outweighs small nuclear wars
Deibel 7
(Terry L, Professor of IR @ National War College, “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Finally, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">there is one major existential threat</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to American security (as well as prosperity) of a nonviolent nature, which, though far in the future, demands urgent action. It is the threat of </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">global … the United States, but potentially to the continued existence of life on this planet.</span>__

//Current Energy Grid is susceptible – Wind energy is key to US energy security//

//Dr. Sovacool, & Cooper, 7 – *Senior Research Fellow for the Network for New Energy Choices in New York and Adjunct Assistant Professor at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University in Blacksburg, VA and **Executive Director of the Network for New Energy Choices**//
//**(Benjamin K. Sovacool, also a Research Fellow at the Centre for Asia and Globalization at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy and Christopher Cooper, Sustainable Development Law & Policy, “State Efforts to Promote Renewable Energy: Tripping the Horse with the Cart?” Fall 2007, 8 Sustainable Dev. L. & Pol'y 5, Lexis-Nexis Academic)**//
//**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IMPROVING ENERGY SECURITY </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second,…… security of the nation's electric infrastructure by forcing more technologies into the portfolio of all American utilities.</span>__**//

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, even a Small grid failure brings down the entire system – impact is chemical plant explosions which are worse than atomic bombs</span>

Latynina 2003
Yulia Latynina, journalist for Novaya Gazeta[World Press Review (VOL. 50, No. 11) www.worldpress.org/Americas/1579.cfm ]
**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The scariest thing ……… </span>__**__civilization could be as lethal as the weapons themselves__**<span style="font-size: 5pt;">. Last week, a significant and major addition was made to the lesson of Sept. 11: The actions of terrorists can’t always be distinguished from the actions of a drunken dispatcher or random lightning.</span>**


===**Solvency**=== 
**__Contention Three is Solvency:__**
**Land grants create the necessary motivations for the plan while avoiding your disads**
**Burroughs 2k9**
**(Craig Burroughs MBA with emphasis in transportation from Northwestern University's Kellogg School, B.S. in Industrial Administration from Iowa State University, is Chairman and CEO of Northern Inter-Continental Enterprises, Inc., (NICE, Inc.) an Alaska Corporation chartered for the purpose of building the Bering Strait railway tunnels and connecting trackage between the North American and Asian rail systems. He has been CEO of several short-line and regional railroads pg online @ [[http://www.railwaytotomorrow.com/fast_track_to_a_better_world.html]] //ghs-ef)//**
**//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FUNDING POSSIBILITIES </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The big question in any multi-nation….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. All told, these sources</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">could provide a substantial flow of cash to aid in completion of the overall project</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//**

**//The tunnel is feasible and can be up and running in ten years – it will eventually connect the entire world//**
**//Cerny '07//**
**//(Louis T. Cerny, former Executive Director of the American Railway Engineering Association, "No Technical Limits to Bering Strait Project", 7/6/07, www.larouchepub.com/other/2007/3427cerny_on_bst.html//GH-Aspomer)**
**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">If someone would have asked me …., </span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">perhaps even a name such as the World Peace Tunnel is not too grandiose</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, since it would link by land transport all the continents of the world except Australia and Antarctica.</span>
=Negative= 
==DA== 
===Cybersecurity DA - St Mark's=== 
1NC Cybersecurity Shell
A. Cybersecurity can pass now, but intense Obama Negotiations key
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">C</span>hemical <span style="font-size: 14pt;">F</span>acility <span style="font-size: 14pt;">S</span>ecurity <span style="font-size: 14pt;">News 10/14</span>
(“S 3414 May Still Be Alive – Cybersecurity,” pg online @ [[http://chemical-facility-security-news.blogspot.com/2012/10/s-3414-may-still-be-alive-cybersecurity.html]] //ghs-ef)
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Two different news organizations (TheHill.com and RollCall.com) are</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> ...</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">House Republicans onboard, then they can probably convince the Senate.</span>__**

C. This is critical to protect vital infrastructure ---

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Sebastian 2k9 </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Rohan,- research for the office of Virginia Senator Mark Warner CS Computer Science from UVA, 6-24 “The Federal Government’s Role in Preserving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The intersection of critical infrastructure and cyberspace has presented many challenges to policymakers.</span><span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">__...__</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> (Hansen, 2001, p. 1161). </span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">This </span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">option’s effectiveness</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> is directly tied to political feasibility and industry acceptance</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.</span>
D. Extinction

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Adhikari ’09 </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Richard, leading journalist on advanced-IP issues for several major publications, including The Wall Street Journal “Civilization's High Stakes Cyber-Struggle: Q&A With Gen. Wesley Clark (ret.)”)</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">The conflicts in the Middle East and Afghanistan, to name the most prominent, ... can't conceive of the threats from the point of view of a traditional war. Cyber-efforts are ongoing today; we're in a cyber-struggle today. We don't know who the adversaries are in many cases, but we know what </span>
===FISA DA=== 

A. FISA is the ONLY major legislation that will pass – it has bipartisan support
Washington Times 9/13/12
(“FISA amendments should be extended; Hunting terrorists, protecting Americans,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)//
//__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While the upcoming election casts </span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…..a</span>__nd fulfills Congress' constitutional responsibility to protect and defend this nation. We owe it to the American people to act quickly.//
//B. Political Capital is key//
//Washington Post 9/13/12//
//(“House votes to renew contested surveillance law,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The House</span>__ of Representatives __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">voted</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Wednesday to renew a contested surveillance law, moving it a step closer to full reauthorization</span>__ - __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a goa</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">…..</span>__I know of specific incidents, both involving terrorist attacks and other kinds of threats, where we have been able to thwart them or gain significant insight into them as a result of this collection activity," Litt said. "This would really create a risk for our security if we lost this capability."
C. Plan Saps Capital
D. It’s Key to prevent Terrorism and stop Bioterror attacks
Salon.com 2k8
(“FISA 101,” pg lexis//ghs-ef)
FISA was enacted in 1978 and updated multiple times since then to accommodate all the modern technologies Terrorists use, including cell phones and computers. It was even am…..mens and the trainer who claims to have injected him with steroids. The press could not have been any more riveted and was fully knowledgable of every relevant detail. Almost every House Committee member came to the hearing thoroughly prepared, grilled the witnesses with the expertise of an experienced litigator, and thundered about the grave seriousness -- and consequences -- of lying to Congress.
E. Bio Weapons Outweigh And Culminate In Extinction
Ochs 2k2
(MA in Natural Resource Management from Rutgers University and Naturalist at Grand Teton National Park [Richard, “Biological Weapons Must Be Abolished Immediately,” Jun 9, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Of all the weapons of mass destruction, the genetically engineered biological weapons, many without a known cure or vaccine, are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in labor…ystem, no national pride, no religion, no political system can be placed above human survival. The egos of leaders must not blind us. The adrenaline and vengeance of a fight must not blind us. The game is over. If patriotism would extinguish humanity, then patriotism is the highest of all crimes.</span>

===Wages DA=== 

Davis Bacon Act means companies pay workers prevailing wages – pushes up costs and causes unemployment
Baird 2k11
(Charles W. Baird, Professor of Economics, Emeritus, California State University, East Bay, “Freeing Labor Markets by Reforming Union Laws,” June 2k11, Cato Institute, pg online @ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/labor/reforming-labor-union-laws]]</span> //ghs-mr)//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This </span>**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Davis-Bacon Act</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, passed at the ………………..</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> construction workers from open competition. </span>__//
//Kills competitiveness//
//Griswold 2k10//
//(Daniel Griswold, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization (Washington: Cato Institute, 2009), “Unions, Protectionism, and U.S. Competitiveness,” Cato Journal, Vol. 30, No. 1, Winter 2010, pg online @ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.cato.org/pubs/journal/cj30n1/cj30n1-10.pdf]]</span>// ghs-mr)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While globalization has affected labor unions in……………….</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> inefficiencies caused by the union.” </span>__
Economic competitiveness decline causes extinction
Khalilzad 2k11
(Zalmay Khalilzad, Zalmay Khalilzad was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, “The Economy and National Security,” 2/8/2k11, pg online @ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.nationalreview.com/articles/259024/economy-and-national-security-zalmay-khalilzad?pg=3]]</span> //ghs-mr)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">S</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">’</span>____<span style="font-size: 12pt;">position as global leader</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">While the U</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited States ……..</span>**__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">era of multi-polarity.</span>__**

===**States**=== 

====**1NC**==== 

Text: The 50 state governments, the territories, and Washington DC should __, and audit their transportation programs to maximize efficiency, and eliminate duplication and waste, authorize any necessary increase in user fees, establish congestion pricing, and enact comprehensive public-private partnership legislation to finance the plan.__
__The counterplan solves – it frees up plenty of cash for the plan__
__Puentes 2k11__
__(senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]] //um-ef)__
__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Second, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">state investments are not made ………………..</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;"> November 2008, </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">right it the middle of the economic downturn</span>__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">.23 Governors should encourage this kind of self help</span>
And, the states solve – federal action collapses into bureaucratic ineffectiveness
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Edwards ’11</span>
(Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.)
Increased infrastructure spending has bipartisan …………….. companies. <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">They will create just as many jobs while providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public. They're ready.</span>

====<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2NC Follow On</span>==== 

Federal government models state action
Golden ’99
(Dylan, JD Candidate – UCLA Law, UCLA Journal of Environmental Law & Policy, Lexis)
Individual states vary widely ………in the case of gasoline taxes. 54




[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]