[[toc]]
Email Adam for Neg Cites at [[mailto:adamdagr8est@gmail.com|adamdagr8est@gmail.com]]
Email Phillip for Aff Cites at fillupboldt@live.com


it's port security but not all the same cards as below for nats 







=Affirmative= 

== == 

==Plan Text== 
Plan: The United States federal government should increase investment.

==Contention 1 Trade== 
===Scenario 1 is Economy=== 
Ports __ARE__ the target – gaps in security infrastructure make devastating attacks imminent
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">PR Newswire,</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;"> 2011</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (“10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports”, The Maritime Executive, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]])</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Among the materials… </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">our national defense.”</span>

Port security is critical to maintain the stability of trade //internationally// and billions of dollars in contributions from port-employment annually─
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman; font-size: 17.33px;">Clark et al. 7.</span>** CAPT Bruce G. Clark, USCGR (ret) Director of Maritime Security Projects, Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning -The California Maritime Academy. Dr. Donna J. Nincic , Associate Professor and Chair-Department of Global and Maritime Studies of The California Maritime Academy. CAPT Nevin Fidler, USCGR (ret) Maritime Security Directorate Dept. of Sponsored Projects & Extended Learning-The California Maritime Academy-The California State University. “Protecting America’s Ports: Are We There Yet?” Oct 2007.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The criticality of …</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">of waterborne commerce.</span>

Attacks on ports now are more likely than on any other critical infrastructure assets
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Nadler et al, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Jerrold, Edward J. Markey, Bennie G. Thompson, “Cargo; the Terrorists’ Trojan Horse”, The International Herald Tribune, June 28, http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/hottopics/lnacademic/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Over the years… billion or more.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>


Attacks will have catastrophic ripple effects throughout the economy decimating trade, employment, commodity prices, and nearly every sector of economic activity because ports are the __KEY NEXUS POINT__ through which all goods travel
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Allen, 2008</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Admiral Thad, U.S. Coast Guard, “Friend or Foe? Tough to Tell”, U.S. Naval Institute, [[http://www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf|www.pacnwest.org/docs/friendorfoe.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Some Americans take …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> global financial marketplace</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


Even though recent economic dips have occurred without massive impact, port attacks would cause a uniquely __QUICK__ and __IRRECOVERABLE__ economic collapse
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Flynn, 2003</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Stephen, Jeane J. Kirkpatrick Senior Fellow in National Security Studies and Director, Council on Foreign Relations Independent Task Force on Homeland Security Imperatives, “The Fragile State of Container Security”, Testimony Before the U.S. Senate, [[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">A year later …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> up international trade</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>

Their generic economy impact defense is a non-starter – it assumes recession-induced dips, not total __GRIND-TO-A-HALT__ shutdown
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Bakir, 2007</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Niyazi Onur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain”, published 1/1/2007 by CREATE Research Center, pg. 9)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Seaports are …</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> and inflict casualties. </span>
Economic decline causes war
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Royal 10</span> — Jedidiah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, M.Phil. Candidate at the University of New South Wales, 2010 (“Economic Integration, Economic Signalling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” //Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives//, Edited by Ben Goldsmith and Jurgen Brauer, Published by Emerald Group Publishing, ISBN 0857240048, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Less intuitive is … to those views.</span>

===Scenario 2 is Interdependence=== 

Maritime security is key to international trade—keeps trade leadership
Joseph J. **Cox**, President, Chamber of Shipping of America, 10/2/**01**, “RAILROAD AND MARITIME SECURITY”, Senate Hearing 107-1033 From the U.S. Government Printing Office, [[http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-107shrg89457/html/CHRG-107shrg89457.htm|__http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-107shrg89457/html/CHRG-107shrg89457.htm__]]
Chamber of Shipping … on the move.


U.S. strength in international trade is key to free Trade and US leadership
**Panitchpakdi 4** ( Secretary general for the UN conference on trade and development “ American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?” http://www.wto.org/english/news_e/spsp_e/spsp22_e.htm)
I can sum … were America’s objectives.

Threats are real—US Leadership solves every single war scenario
**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">Thayer 06</span>**<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;"> (Bradley A., Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, Duluth, The National Interest, November -December, "In Defense of Primacy", lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">A remarkable fact … **__for the world__.**</span>

Protectionism is the alternative to free trade
**Posen, 09** – Ph.D., Senior Fellow, Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, 2009, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” //Global Power Revisited//, pp. 11-14, http://www.alfred-herrhausen-gesellschaft.de/downloads/FS_USA_09_GlobalPowerRevisited.pdf)
__Though the relative …__following priority measures.


Protectionism Means Extinction
**Panzner, 08** – New York Institute of Finance (Michael J., 2008, //Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,// pp. 137-138)
__The rise in__ … **__new world war__**.

Free trade creates structural disincentives for war through interdependence
**Griswold, 11** – Director, Herbert A. Stiefel Center for Trade Policy Studies, Cato Institute (Daniel, 2011, “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” //Hayek Society Journal// Vol. 9 (2011), http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)
__Our more globalized …__ civil conflict and war.


==Contention 2 Terrorism== 
It’s only a matter of time—terrorist attack inevitable absent the plan
**The Providence Journal 2006** (“Neglecting port security puts U.S. in economic peril” Providence Journal/Evening Bulletin 9/24/06 ProQuest 6/20/12)
Now, five years … __tragedy could do.__

Anonymity of containers means every container is a potential threat—increasing risk
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Keefer</span>, Campbell Law Review, <span style="font-size: 16px;">2012</span> (Wendy, March 3rd, “Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect the Homeland and the International Supply Chain”, Campbell Law Review)
As will become … who manages them. '5

Ports are vulnerable to terrorist attack – threatens biological, chemical, and nuclear warfare
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Allam , May 9, 2012</span> (Zaheer Allam is senior vice president of Telecom Products and Operations for Polaris Wireless, Government Technology, “3 Ways Machine-to-Machine Tech Can Assist Governments”, http://www.govtech.com/technology/3-Ways-Machine-to-Machine-Tech-Can-Assist-Governments-.html)
According to the … or nuclear weapon.

===Scenario 1 is Nuclear Terrorism=== 
Terrorists already have nuclear materials—only a matter of time before attack
Mimi Hall 10<span style="font-size: 16px;"> , staff writer for USA Today, 4/12/2010, “Obama seeks front against nuclear terror”, http://www.usatoday.com/news/washington/2010-04-11-nukesummit_N.htm </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Obama said "</span><span style="font-family: Times New Roman;">the …</span> attack" by 2013.

A port attack is the most likely risk of nuclear terrorism
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Konkel 05</span> (Todd Konkel, Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 2005, “Container Security: Preventing … remain terribly inadequate.


Nuclear terrorism __ensures__planet-ending great power nuclear war—Draws in Russia and China and kills environment
Dennis Ray Morgan 9, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, Yongin Campus - South Korea, Futures, Volume 41, Issue 10, December 2009, Pages 683-693
Years later, in **…** a nuclear winter.


===Scenario 2 is Bioterrorism=== 
Ports are the only way Bio weapons could enter the United States—attack would be a worst case scenario.
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Frittelli 05 [John F, Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress” May 27, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf PWS]</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Security experts are … one of them.</span>

Only 7% of cargo is screened for biological threats
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Seaport security news,11-23- 2010 ”Port Security Is A Global Issue” [[http://www.seaportsecuritynews.com/?p=212]]</span>
__Only 7-10% …__ to reaching port.


Inadequate port security makes bioterror inevitable
<span class="verdana">Barry **Ritholtz**, October 23, 20**11**, (chief executive of FusionIQ, a quantitative research firm) Washington Post, </span><span class="ssl0">The public investment we need to make now, for our competitiveness, our jobs and our safety, Lexis</span>
<span class="verdana">__Ports. We are …__ upgrade as well.</span>
Current proliferation of biological weapons makes bioterrorism likely
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Koblentz 04</span> (Gregory Koblentz, is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Public and International Affairs and Deputy Director of the Biodefense Graduate Program at George Mason University, he is an Associate Faculty at the Center for Global Studies at George Mason University, and he is a Research Affiliate with the Security Studies Program at MIT, at the time he was a doctoral candidate in political science at MIT, Winter 2003/04 “Pathogens as Weapons: The International Security Implications of Biological Warfare” [[http://belfercenter]].hks.harvard.edu/files/koblentz.pdf)
Preventing the spread … acquire these weapons.

Bioterror is the __most__ likely risk for human extinction – even a minor risk means the plan is key
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Matheny 07</span> (Jason Matheny research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University where his work focuses on technology forecasting and risk assessment – particularly of global catastrophic risks and existential risks, he is a Sommer Scholar and PhD candidate in Applied Economics at Johns Hopkins University, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction” [[http://physics]].harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf)
More recent predictions … respond to pandemics

Biological terrorism in a port would cause the world economy to collapse and cause extinction through diseases
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Abt et. al. 03</span> (Clark C. Abt, Ph.D., William Rhodes, Ph.D., Rocco Casagrande, Ph.D., Gary Gaumer, Ph.D.5/9/03, “The Economic Impacts of Bioterrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability” http://abtassociates.com/reports/ES-Economic_Impacts_of_Bioterrorist_Attacks.pdf)
Our investigation of … global biological warfare.

Even the smallest bioterror attack would collapse the economy and cause a nuclear WW3
Kerpen 08, President of American Commitment [Phil, president of American Commitment, From Panic to Depression?, October 28 2008, [[http://www.philkerpen.com/?q=node/1]], June 25 2012]

It’s important that … __even greater scale.__

Port security solves bioterror—Chemical Sensors
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Staples 04</span> (Edward J. Staples has a Ph.D. in solid-state physics and electronics from Southern Methodist University and is a co-inventor of the zNose, April 2004, “Chemical Profiling Cargo with an Ultra-High Speed Gas Chromatograph, Olfactory Images, and Virtual Chemical Sensors” www.estcal.com/tech_papers/papers/Security/Cargo_Container_Odors.pdf)
Ultra-high speed … of any kind


Plan solves terrorism—increased security deters all terrorist attacks
RAND 09, The RAND Corporation is a nonprofit research organization providing objective analysis and effective solutions that address the challenges facing the public and private sectors around the world., 2009, a chapter in the series of New Ideas produced by rand found at, “Understanding the Role of Deterrence in Counterterrorism Security”, page 1 [[http://www.rand|www.rand]].org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP281.pdf
__Deterrence is a …out of incompetence.__

==Solvency== 
The Port Security Grant Program is severely underfunded – the plan is key to fill critical infrastructure gaps and ensure effective port security
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Kimery, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Anthony, Staff Writer for the Homeland Security Today website, “Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations” published 3/9/2012, http://www.hstoday.us/briefings/grants-funding/single-article/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations/8e5771ad69aa40aed3ae590bf914477d.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">This week the …</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> be implemented now.” </span>

Bolstering security infrastructure at ports via the PSGP is key to solve
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Holmes, 2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (John M., Deputy Executive Director of Operations Port of Los Angeles, Testimony Before The United States House of Representatives, Appropriations Committee, Subcommittee on Homeland Security, “Budget Hearing - Federal Emergency Management Agency –Director and State & Local Witnesses” [[http://appropriations.house.gov/uploadedfiles/hhrg-112-ap15-jholmes-20120307.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Since 9/11, port … grant funding reductions.</span>


USFG is key - states require the federal government for effective port upgrades because of interstate competition and a failure to share solutions
<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">Puentes</span> 5/23/<span style="font-size: 17.33px;">2011</span> (Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow and director of Metropolitan Policy at Brookings, former Director of Infrastructure at the Intelligent Transportation Society of America, “Move It: How the U.S. Can Improve Transportation Policy”; http://www.brookings.edu-/research/opinions/2011/05/23transportation-policy-puentes)

<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The country needs … our national goals?</span>