[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
==Sequoyah== 
===1AC North=== 
Same as below with this card on top

**Russia is going to the Arctic now.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RT 8-6</span>-12<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">(RT, “Russia to build new naval bases in the Arctic”, 06 August, 2012,</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[@http://rt.com/politics/arctic-ship-marine-base-969/)/moxley|http://rt.com/politics/arctic-ship-marine-base-969/)//moxley]]</span>
Russia is going to build bases for the Navy and Border Guard Service along the
AND
-resources, as well as deposits of hydrocarbons and other natural resources.”
===1AC South=== 
This card on top

**The Antarctic Treaty is being undermined now.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">VOXY 9-19-12</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Voxy News, “Antarctica may come under threat – UC” expert, The expert is Brian Storev of the University of Canterbury, September 19th, 2012, http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/antarctica-may-come-under-threat-uc-expert/5/135147)//moxley//</span>
//The near pristine environment of Antarctica will in time come under a threat in future//
//AND//
//being extracted from Antarctica within the next 36 years? Dr Storey said.//

//**Took out the South China Sea scenario and replaced it with these**//

//**Second, the ATS stops exploitation – collapse leads to unregulated drilling – kills the Antarctic biodiversity.**//
//**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Floren, 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(David W. Floren, Associate Attorney @ Robert B. Jacobs Attorney Firm, Former J.D. candidate, Class of 2002, University of Oregon School of Law; B.A., Political Science, 1992, University of California, San Diego, “Antarctic Mining Regimes: An Appreciation of the Attainable” 2001 University of Oregon Journal of Environmental Law and Litigation, Fall 2001, 16 J. Envtl. L. & Litig. 467, Online @ L/N Law, Online)</span>//moxley
Harm to the quality of scientific research is another major source of concern. Scientists
AND
close or "to drill relief wells for as long as six months.”

**Key to global biodiversity - Migrating Species .**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">UNEP 10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(United Natins Environment Program, Johnsen, K. Alfthan, B. Hislop, L. Skaalvik, J. F. (Editors), “Protecting Arctic Biodiversity: Limitations and Strengths of Environental Agreements” UNEP Grid Arendal, 2010, Online [HT])</span>
The Arctic contribution to global biodiversity is significant. Although the Arctic has relatively few
AND
year in order to take advantage of the short but productive Arctic summers2.

**Biodiversity loss causes extinction.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Science</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> **Daily** **11** </span>("Biodiversity Key to Earth's Life-Support Functions in a CHanging World," Cites Albert-Ludwigs-Universitat Freiburg, August 11, [[http://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm|www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110811084513.htm]]
ScienceDaily (Aug. 11, 2011) — The biological diversity of organisms on
AND
diversity is thus a crucial factor in maintaining Earth's life-support functions.

===**Solvency**=== 
**Only a __PDD__ aligns agency responsibilities for __federal investment__ in icebreaking capabilities**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//
//The committee finds that both operations and maintenance of the polar icebreaker fleet have been//
//AND//
//Decision Directive should be issued to clearly align agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.//

//**We funded the POLAR STAR.**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COMMITTEE ON TRANSPORTATION AND INFRASTUCTURE, SUBCOMMITTEE ON COAST GUARD, “PROTECTING U.S. SOVEREIGNTY: COAST GUARD OPERATIONS”, DECEMBER 1, 2011 http://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=683184)</span>//moxley
The POLAR STAR was commissioned on January 19, 1976, but has been in
AND
Awful Long 'l'ime,"' Inside the Navy, August 30, 2010.).

**But it failed – we need additional funding.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ronald </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">O'Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs, 2012 (June 14, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress” Congressional Research Service)</span>
The Coast Guard’s three polar icebreakers are multimission ships that can break through ice,
AND
in her current condition, even after we do the engine repairs.”10

**The usfg is key**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//
//The committee was asked to consider alternative ship ownership options. Considering the McMurdo break//
//AND//
//and “should be operated by the U.S. Coast Guard.”//

//**Russia is expanding military and naval force in the Arctic region, which will make conflict much more likely**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Strategic Studies Institute ’11</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Strategic Studies Institute, strategic-level study agent for issues related to national security and military strategy. “Russia in the Arctic.” Online. July 2011. <http://www.strategicstudiesinstitute.army.mil/pdffiles/PUB1073.pdf</span>//
//Perhaps more telling is paragraph 11, which lays out the future battlegrounds where conflicts//
//AND//
//Eastern military districts, which are specifically trained for combat in Arctic regions.”//

//**Russia won’t abide by treaties – only an offensive posture solves**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dawkins 11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Peter, E-International Relations, November 2011, “Securitisation and the Arctic Circle, http://www.e-ir.info/2011/11/11/securitisation-of-the-arctic-circle/)</span>//moxley
Russia, as it stands could make the largest territorial gain from the Arctic,
AND
Russian export market and fundamentally the Russian itself, may depend on it.

==Wake== 
===1AC Navy=== 
Advantage 1 is the Navy

**2 Internal Links –**

**First, Russia is going to the Arctic – their dominance will allow them to prevent shipping and American involvement in Arctic trade**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke et al. 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley//</span>
//__<span style="color: #141413;">There is one geographic area in particular where climate change could generate very traditional security </span>__//
//__<span style="color: #141413;">AND</span>__//
//**__<span style="color: #141413;">take advantage of the Northwest Passage as a faster trans-oceanic route.</span>__**//

//**The plan is key – Naval presence is key to have access to Arctic trade – severely inhibits American economic competiveness and curtails economic leadership**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke et al. 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>//moxley
__<span style="color: #141413;">Disruptions to global shipping and commercial ports resulting from climate change will present challenges to </span>__
__<span style="color: #141413;">AND</span>__
**__<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 12pt;">and defending U.S. economic and other interests in the Arctic.</span>__**

**Lack of engagement in trade and trade credibility causes trade blocs and global conflict**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bergsten 97</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Peterson Institute for International Economics (Fred C., “Global Trade and American Politics”, September 27, 1997, The Economist, [[http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/print.cfm?doc=pub&ResearchID=291]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Second, the </span>__trade policy credibility of the United States will totally evaporate if it__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">his predecessors, without jolting confidence in its staying power in other respects.</span>

**The Arctic is key – it will be critical trade region in the future – the Navy is key to ensure access**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke et al. 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)//moxley//</span>
//<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">If the Arctic sea-lanes are opened for trading during the summer, even </span>//
//<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="color: #141413; font-size: 8pt;">anticipate and respond to these challenges, reinforcing naval ties with Northern allies.</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Second is Power Projection</span>//

//**The Russian Navy will annex the Arctic – the plan is key to secured naval presence**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke et al. 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Sharon burke is a senior fellow for CNAS. Christine Parthemore is a research associate at CNAS. Jay Gulledge, Phd, is the senior scientist for the Pew Center on Global Climate Change; Nirav Patel is the Bacevich fellow at CNAS. Michael Horowitz, Phd, is a non-resident fellow at CNAS, “Uncharted Waters: The U.S. Navy and Navigating Climate Change”, December 2008, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Working%20Paper_CNO_ClimateChange_BurkePatel_Dec2008.pdf)</span>//moxley
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">At present, </span>**__the Arctic geopolitical terrain is being shaped by the Russian Navy__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>
__AND__
__. Naval vessels, especially submarines, potentially even influencing SLBM__ __launch azimuths.__

**Access to the Arctic will allow future power projection capabilities for the Navy – it will be a geopolitical focal point for the next century**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Akimoto 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Kazumine</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Senior Research Fellow, Ocean Policy Research Foundation, “Power Games in the Arctic Ocean” October 20, 2009, http://www.institutenorth.org/assets/images/uploads/files/Power.pdf)//moxley//</span>
//__<span style="color: #262626;">The changes in the Arctic mentioned above will be significant alike from a military viewpoint</span>__//
//__<span style="color: #262626;">AND</span>__//
//__, and that the world’s security__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __3environment will undergo a major upheaval.__//

//**Naval power projection solves great power war**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conway et al 7</span>**[James T., General, U.S. Marine Corps, Gary Roughead, Admiral, U.S. Navy, Thad W. Allen, Admiral, U.S. Coast Guard, “A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower,” October, http://www.navy.mil/maritime/MaritimeStrategy.pdf]//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deter major power war**.**</span>__No other disruption is as potentially disastrous to global stability__//
//__AND__//
//__and sustain forces, sea control and power projection enable extended campaigns ashore__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//

//**Melting ice will make Arctic navigation __impossible__ – Lack of icebreaking infrastructure denies the Navy access to the Arctic**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walter 8-8-12 </span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(</span><span style="color: #262626; font-size: 10pt;">Ensign Joseph P. Walter is a 2012 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and a current student in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University, USGC Captain Staff, August 8th, 2012, http://gcaptain.com/thin-ice-u-s-capability-lacking/)</span>//moxley
__In terms of the technical limitations of Arctic maritime operations for the U.S__
__AND__
**__results in heavier seas—all in an area that is poorly charted.__**

===1AC Antarctic Treaty=== 

Advantage 2 is the ATS

**First, The Antarctic Treaty is collapsing – the plan is key – sustainable Antarctic presence prevents __destruction__ of the Antarctic Treaty – the impact is collapse of stability**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>**(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the treaty, the United States and other signatories are guaranteed freedom of scientific </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//**__scientists at South Pole Station preserves U.S. interests and influence.__**//

//Scenario 1 is War//

//**Collapse of the Antarctic treaty leads to armed conflict**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roura 11 </span>**(Ricardo, environmental geologist, “Antarctica’s Wilderness Values”, 2011, http://www.oneworldmagazine.org/focus/southpole/contmain.htm)//moxley
__As we continue to move towards more "advanced" forms of exploitation of the__
__AND__
**__destroyed. Maybe the future of Antarctica will rely on this duel protection.__**

**Only the plan solves – lack of icebreakers collapses polar presence – without it causes wars and a power vacuum.**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council et al. 5</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Polar Research Board</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Division on Earth and Life Studies</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Marine Board</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">, </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Transportation Research Board, “Polar Icebreaker Roles and U.S. Future Needs: A Preliminary Assessment”, 2005, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11525&page=R3)//moxley//</span>
//__Until recently, the approach of using the two heavy icebreakers, sometimes together and__//
//__AND__//
//__to our position as well as to the stability of the Treaty system.__//

//Scenario 2 is the South China Sea//

//**The ATS serves as a model in the South China Sea – prevents war**//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Banlaoi 1</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Rommel C., Prof at National Defense College of the Philippines, 2001, A functionalist Approach to The Management of Conflicts in the South China Sea: Option for the ASEAN Regional Forum, http://pipvtr.academia.edu/RommelBanlaoi/Papers/1632403/A_Functionalist_Approach_in_the_South_China_Sea_Disputes)</span>//moxley
__In the Antarctic Ocean, the Antarctic Treaty is an excellent model where marine scientists__
__AND__
, the Antarctic Treaty guarantees for the collective governance of the Antarctic Ocean.

**South China Sea conflict escalates and goes nuclear**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Waldron 97 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Arthur, professor of Strategy and Policy at the Naval War College Commentary, [[http://www.aei.org/publications/pubID.7442,filter.all/pub_detail.asp]]</span>, accessed on 7/19/12,]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Then there is Southeast Asia, which, having weathered the Vietnam War and a </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">--Russia, or India, or Japan</span>--or the U<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nited</span> S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">tates.</span>

**It’s the most likely scenario for conflict – it gets modeled worldwide and serves as a foundation for future treaties**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yin 6-19-12 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Wenquin Yin, Chinese Journal of International Law, Moratorium in International Law, June 29th, 2012, http://chinesejil.oxfordjournals.org/content/early/2012/04/18/chinesejil.jms032.full)</span>
__The intent and purpose of the moratorium on performance or furtherance of conflicting claims are__
__AND__
**__system collapses, the issue of territorial claim disputes will definitely arise again.__**
===Plan=== 

Plan: The President of the United States should issue a Presidential Decision Directive mandating the investment in maintenance and construction of polar icebreakers.
===1AC Solvency=== 
**Contention 3 is Solvency**

**Only a __presidential directive__ aligns agency responsibilities for __federal investment__ in icebreaking capabilities**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley//
//__The committee finds that both operations and maintenance of the polar icebreaker fleet have been__//
//__AND__//
//**__Decision Directive should be issued to clearly align agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.__**//

//**A presidential decision directive is the __only__ way to create sustainable icebreaking capability – aligns resources and delegates necessary budgetary authority**//
//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">National Research Council 7 </span>(NRC, Committee on the Assessment of U.S. Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Roles and Future Needs, National Research Council. “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs. Washington, 2007, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=2)//moxley
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The U.S. need for polar icebreaking has been studied several times over </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__Directive,__** **__should be issued to clearly align agency responsibilities and budgetary authorities.__**

**The Coast Guard would coordinate with many federal agencies to achieve long-term solvency**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO</span> An analysis of the reports assembled by various government offices 12/01/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">11 </span>[Government Accountability Office] DHS-OIG “Report on the Coast Guard's Polar Icebreakers”
http://www.gao.gov/htext/d12254t.html
The Coast Guard also coordinates with federal agencies, such as the NSF<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">,</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">National </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Security Presidential Directive 66/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25.[Footnote 37] </span>

==<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Contact</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">jatin.nanda1337@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">or kiyoshiwoolheater@gmail.com if he is too lazy <3</span>
=Negative= 
==DA== 
===Elections DA=== 
**Obama’s going to win now – polls prove**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blodget 9/6/</span>2012 [Henry Blodget, Business Insider Politics, “NATE SILVER: Obama's Odds Of Winning Have Risen Sharply--He's Now At 76%” http://www.businessinsider.com/nate-silver-obama-odds-of-winning-2012-9 SS]
President Obama's chances of winning the election have risen in the past week, according
AND
lower than Silver's. Intrade gives Obama a 59% chance of winning.

**Funding transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__**.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Orski 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]</span>
Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

**GOP win causes Iran War**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jonathan Curiel 10</span>, Prof of Journalism @ UCLA, 7-28-2010, “What just might happen if Obama loses in 2012,”http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:AIlWa6eGDQcJ:trueslant.com/jonathancuriel/2010/07/28/what-just-might-happen-if-obama-loses-in-2012/+If+Obama+losses+2012&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us&client=firefox-a
War in Iran: The Republicans’ ascension marks the return of chickenhawk diplomacy. Instead
AND
historically – become the world’s leading front for insurgency against the United States.

**Strikes cause Middle East war and oil shocks**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Petras 12/15/05</span> (James, former Professor of Sociology at Binghamton University, "Israel's War with Iran: The Coming Mid East Conflagration Or Israel Bombs Iran: The US Suffers the Consequences," http://www.thestruggle.org/petras.htm)
The US then would attempt to pressure Russia and China to vote in favor of
AND
, destabilizing the world economy and provoking a major world recession or worse.

**Nuclear Wars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Primakov 9</span> [September, Yevgeny, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the Russian Federation; Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences; member of the Editorial Board of Russia in Global Affairs. This article is based on the scientific report for which the author was awarded the Lomonosov Gold Medal of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2008, “The Middle East Problem in the Context of International Relations”]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The</span> Middle East conflict is unparalleled in terms of its potential for spreading globally.
AND
seems that President Obama’s <span style="font-size: 8pt;">position does not completely rule out such a possibility.</span>

==Intel== 
===Carrolton=== 
====Round 1 vs Roswell MU==== 
Aff: Narratives

1NC: Framwork, Cap K, State Bad CP
2NC: Cap K
1NR: Framework
2NR: Cap K
====Round 4 vs Hooch==== 
Aff: Port Security

1NC: T-no security, Fiscal Cliff DA, Cap K, States CP
2NC: T, Cap K, case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: T
====Round 5 vs Houston County==== 
Aff: Off Shore Ports

1NC: T, Fiscal Cliff DA, Cap K, States CP
2NC: Cap K, case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Cap K
===Sequoyah=== 
====Round 1 vs. Woodward==== 
Aff: Surface Transportation Infrastructure

1NC: T-maintance, States CP, Fiscal Cliff DA, Cap K
2NC: Cap K, case
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA
2NR: Cap K
====Round 4 vs. Westminster Prep==== 
Aff: Inland Waterways

1NC: T-TI, Fiscal Cliff DA, States CP, Cap K, heg turns
2NC: T-TI, Cap K, heg turns
1NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, case
2NR: Fiscal Cliff DA, heg turns, case
===Wake=== 
====Round 4 vs. Carrolton==== 
Aff: Free Mass Transit

1NC: T-USFG, States CP, Elections DA, Cap K
2NC: Cap K, Case
1NR: Elections DA
2NR: Elections DA
==Contact== 
Want cites or full text? Hit me up...
kiyoshiwoolheater@gmail.com
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]