Sept/Oct Topic
Neg.

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">A citizen is defined by the OED as "one possessing civic rights and privileges"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">My Value is Morality</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">My standard is Upholding the Social Contract</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">1. We all joined a covenant and elected a sovereign so that we may be protected fully. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Thomas </span>Hobbes <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Philosopher, Secretary to Francis Bacon, Worked for Cavendish Family]. __The Leviathan__, pp. 150-151.</span> 1651."The only way...and common defence"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">2. The Sovereign has an obligation to protect its citizens first and foremost, over anything else, or be dissolved. <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Thomas </span>Hobbes <span style="font-size: 9pt;">[Philosopher, Secretary to Francis Bacon, Worked for Cavendish Family]. __The Leviathan__, pp. 195.</span> 1651."The obligation of...it, be immortal"</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: -webkit-auto;">Nothing is morally obligated before the covenant.Rick Parrish, __Violence Inevitable: The Play of Force and Respect in Derrida, Nietzche, Hobbes, and Berlin__ , pp. 67, 2006."Nothing is Owed...Can be Unjust"</span>


<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1: By giving non-citizens rights, we are treating non-citizens better than citizens, thereby violating the Social Contract and being Unjust.</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">In the Status Quo, Citizens accused of terrorism do not receive any due process rights. In fact, U.S. legalities that apply to non-citizens accused of terrorism also apply to citizens.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Kent </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roach</span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> [</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Professor of Law and Prichard and Wilson Chair in Law and Public Policy, University of Toronto]. NATIONAL SECURITY: PART II: ARTICLE: “UNEASY NEIGHBORS: COMPARATIVE AMERICAN AND CANADIAN COUNTER-TERRORISM,” in William Mitchell Law Review. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2012</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Lexis- Nexis. pp. 1727-28</span></span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt; text-align: justify;">"What may appear...admitted extra-legal conduct"</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Due Process Rights provide a huge advantage.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif;"><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> “Annual Review of Criminal Procedure,”</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Georgetown</span> <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Law Journal,</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>.</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; display: block; font-family: arial,sans-serif;">"The Due Process Clause...the same offense"</span>

Aff.
In Most Cases, when discussing “ought” as moral, it implies an obligation. <span style="font-size: 12px;">Michael </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Zimmerman </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Professor of Philosophy and Director of the Center for Humanities and the Arts at CU, Boulder]. __The Concept of Moral Obligation__, Cambridge University Press, pp. 3-4,</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> 1996.</span>
“’ought’ cannot be…the term ‘moral’”

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Value—Morality</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Standard—Maintaining Consistency with Contracts</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">We enter contracts because they are mutually beneficial to both sides, and stop moral wrongness. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Thomas Michael</span> Scanlon<span style="font-size: 12px;"> [</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12px;">Alford Professor of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy, and Civil Polity in Harvard University's Department of Philosophy. He has been awarded a MacArthur Foundation "Genius" Grant.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]. __What We Owe to Each Other__, Harvard University Press, pp. 5, </span>1998.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“It holds that…back to Rousseau”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Because we consented to contracts, we are morally obligated to them. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">Thomas Michael</span> Scanlon<span style="font-size: 12px;"> [</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12px;">Alford Professor of Natural Religion, Moral Philosophy, and Civil Polity in Harvard University's Department of Philosophy. He has been awarded a MacArthur Foundation "Genius" Grant.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]. __What We Owe to Each Other__, Harvard University Press, pp. 260, </span>1998.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“From the fact…not consented to”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Promises cannot morally be broken, even with extreme consequences. Contracts are promises.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> John </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Rawls </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[</span><span style="color: #1a1a1a; font-size: 12px;">James Bryant Conant University Professor at Harvard University</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">]. “Two Concepts of Rules,” The Philosophical Review, Vol. 64, No. 1, pp. 17, January,</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> 1955.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“But to do…been extremely severe”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Contention 1: International Law demands that we provide constitutional due process to non-citizens. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">1. </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">CRAIG </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">FORCESE</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(Vice Dean and Assoc. Professor, University of Ottawa School of Law) “A distinction with a legal difference: the consequences of non-citizenship in the ‘war on terror'” in </span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">HUMAN SECURITY</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND NON-CITIZENS:</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">Law Policy and International Affairs</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">.</span> 2010. <span style="font-size: 12px;">p. 426</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“The rules on…human beings generally”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">At the very least, we must treat non-citizens on par with citizens, as per international agreements.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> CRAIG </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">FORCESE </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">(Vice Dean and Assoc. Professor, University of Ottawa School of Law) “A distinction with a legal difference: the consequences of non-citizenship in the ‘war on terror'” in </span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">HUMAN SECURITY</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND NON-CITIZENS:</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">Law Policy and International Affairs</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> 2010</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">. p. 426-427</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“All the chief…human rights law”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">We have signed the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Part I, Article VII)</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“No one shall…treatment or punishment”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">We should look to international law because 1)We have mutual interests and values, and 2)We have a legal obligation so as to preserve solidarity.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> Harold Hongju</span><span style="font-size: 16px;">Koh</span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Professor of International Law at Yale; Legal Advisor to the U.S. Department of State]. “Why do Nations Obey International Law,” pp. 2613. Yale Law School Faculty Scholarship Series.</span> 1997. <span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 13.3333px;">[[http://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/fss_papers/2101]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“Alfred Verdross’s 1927…explanation for compliance”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">2. We were involved in making many contracts</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">3. Not maintaining our agreements with International Law actually hurts our citizens.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> John </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">McCain </span><span style="font-size: 12px;">[Senator of Arizona; Navy Captain]. “Bin Laden’s Death and the Debate over Torture,” Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/bin-ladens-death-and-the-debate-over-torture/2011/05/11/AFd1mdsG_story.html]] May 11, </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">2011.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“Mistreatment of enemy…respect to others”</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Most powerful governments like the U.K. have decided to forgo the moral grounds of rights for the sake of U.S. relations. We are influencing others.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> Lorna</span>McGregor <span style="font-size: 12px;">[Director LLM in International Human Rights Law and Member of Human Rights Clinic Advisory Board; Senior Lecturer at the University of Essex, U.K]. __Human Security and Non-Citizens: Law, Policy, and International Affairs__, Cambridge University Press, Ch. 16, pp. 581-582</span> 2010.
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“Again, the Secretary…the U.S. Government”</span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">The NDAA or MCA’s do not exclude us from International Law agreements.</span><span style="font-size: 12px;"> CRAIG </span>**FORCESE**<span style="font-size: 12px;">(Vice Dean and Assoc. Professor, University of Ottawa School of Law) “A distinction with a legal difference: the consequences of non-citizenship in the ‘war on terror'” in </span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">HUMAN SECURITY</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">AND NON-CITIZENS:</span>____<span style="font-size: 12px;">Law Policy and International Affairs</span>__<span style="font-size: 12px;">. </span>2010<span style="font-size: 12px;">. p. 427-429</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">“denial of justice…under international law”</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">Possible Theory Interps: </span>
Interp: Debaters may not argue that theory is a reverse voting issue.

Interp: All debaters with coaches must post the full text of every T and Theory interpretation for which they have written out a shell on the NDCA wiki at least one hour before the first round in which they run those interpretations and leave their wiki post up forever.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Interpretation: offense to an ethical framework must be contestable facts about reality, and can’t empirically go one way or the other. Offense may not consist in facts about the world</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Interpretation: debaters don’t have to clarify theory violations in CX.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 12pt;">Interp: </span>The Affirmative must always specify what Constitutional Due Process Rights he/she is giving to non-citizens accused of terrorism.

Meadows Aff:

Ought implies a moral obligation

Other pressing necessities bar individuals from political participation

Presume Aff

Value- Morality

First, morality can only ever be determined in a political context, because it is dependent on the individual subject formation that can only happen through contestation. **Hatab**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftn1|[1]]]</span>**1 (**Lawrence J**. Hatab** “Prospects For A Democratic //Agon//: Why We Can Still Be)
“First of all…my previous work”

Second, the struggle of political contestation is necessary for maturing the self. Wolfe1 writes,
[Wolfe, Alan. Whose Keeper?: Social Science and Moral obligation. 1989]
“The social construction…maturity and growth.”

Third, the only way that subjects can understand themselves as moral is through the example of what it means to be a good person. We are socialized in the processes of what it means to be moral. Strom (<span style="font-size: 12px;">Gregory Strom. In Defense of the Practical Imagination. University of Pittsburgh. No date. http://www.pitt.edu/~gbs4/In%20Defense%20of%20the%20Practical%20Imagination.pdf )</span>
“Now the—ought-ought…about good people.”

**My burden is to demonstrate that not guaranteeing universal health care undermines individual ability to mature and create the self through contestant ideas.** 

liminal and structurally excluded individuals are the most important subjects of moral obligation, as they exist on the boundary of what is permissible.

Wolfe2 writes:
“To account for…of moral rules.”

In order for political identity to improve, it is necessary to level the playing field. Hatab2 writes:
“Fair competition in…such unequal conditions.”

Hatab3: “As we have…to varying degrees.”

Waitzkin 1 (Waitzkin, Howard. “The Second Sickness: Contradictions of Capitalist Health Care.” 2000.)
explains the aff’s advocacy with regards to universal health care:
“In countries with…relieved maldistributional problems”

Waitzkin2: “Especially under the rubric…health care has increased.”

RIGHT TO HEALTH HAS BASIS IN SOCIAL JUSTICE AND UTILITARIAN VIEWS. Engelhard:
<span style="font-size: 12px;">Engelhard, Carolyn L. [MPA], Garson, Arthur Jr. [MD, MPH]. “The Right to Health Care and the Role of Government in Health Policy,” Miller Center of Public Affairs, University of Virginia. February 28, 2008. <[[http://www.medicine.virginia.edu/clinical/departments/phs/news/docs/mcbriefingfinal.pdf]]></span>
“The belief in…of their society.”

----
<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 16px;">[[home#_ftnref1|[1]]]</span> Lawrence J**. Hatab** “Prospects For A Democratic //Agon//: Why We Can Still Be Nietzscheans” //The Journal of Nietzsche Studies// 24, 200**2** 132-147