=Notes= 
For aff cites email jbishop@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org
For neg cites email ogivan@thecollegepreparatoryschool.org

Not every card we read will make it up here, so feel free to ask if you want us to put something up.
On the other hand, if you email us asking for full text of something that you could find by simply googling, we **will** laugh at you.
[[toc]]
=Eventalization AFF= 

==1AC Race (Wake)== 
===Contention 1- A History Lesson=== 
**We begin with a discussion by Peter Dreier in 2006 about the way society remembers Rosa Parks:**
(Peter __Dreier__, Professor of Politics and Director of the Urban and Environmental Policy Program @ Occidental College, __2006__ “Rosa Parks: Angry, Not Tired” Dissent vol.53 #1 pgs. 88-92)

THE WAY WE LEARN history shapes how we think about the present and the future
AND
, year-long <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">grassroots </span>challenge to the city'spolitical and economic establishment.


**Our modern view of history reduces it to a series of spontaneous events. The remembrance of Parks as a sole revolutionary ignores the complex web of historical events and the multiplicity of actors whose efforts were necessary to create change, dooming future efforts to failure.**
Moya __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lloyd</span>__, 3/14/__20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07</span>__, (Professor of political theory at Loughborough University, Radical Democratic Activism and the Politics of Resignification, Constellations Journal, Vol.14 Issue 1.,6/26/12, K.H.)

By claiming a seat at the front of the bus, in segregated Montgomery,
AND
against the bus companies but, perhaps more pertinently, a legal challenge.


**The reality of the historic relationship between transportation and race relations in the United States is thus much more complex. As a corrective to this tendency towards eventalization, we offer a brief account of the history of transportation racism from the founding of our country upon the backs of stolen slaves transported from Africa to the segregated community in which our own high school is situated.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Marcantonio & Brenman 12</span>__, Managing Attorney for Public Advocates Inc., a non-profit public interest law firm in San Francisco, California & former Executive Director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and former Senior Policy Advisor for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation; 2012 (Richard & Marc, “LESSONS FROM THE HISTORY OF TRANSPORTATION JUSTICE”,
[[http://equity.lsnc.net/lessons-from-the-history-of-transportation-justice/]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transportation injustice in the United States dates back to the involuntary transport of Africans to </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">come at the expense of the local bus service on which they rely.</span>

**And these problems from the 1970’s continue today in the Bay Area as public school children in Oakland and Berkeley are forced to chose between eating lunch and paying for their bus rides home from school.**
__Mayer & Marcantonio,__ attorney fellow and managing attorney with the public interest law firm of Public Advocates, Inc., in San Francisco, __2006__ (Guillermo & Richard, “Bay Area Transit—Separate and Unequal”, __Race, Poverty and the Environment__ Winter 2005/2006 [[http://www.urbanhabitat.org/node/313]])

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Since most school districts in the East Bay do not provide yellow school bus transportation</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">services continually decline, and fares rise, for AC Transit bus riders.</span>


**This promotion of the highway and costly rail systems is not accidental and leaves millions of Americans, many of them people of color, trapped in economically depressed areas-- resulting in deteriorated life choices and persistent poverty.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bullard 04</span>__, (Robert D, PhD in Sociology, Dean of the Barbara Jordan-Mickey Leland School of Public Affairs at Texas Southern University, Previously Ware Professor of Sociology and Director of the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, “Introduction,” in __Highway Robbery: Transportation Racism and New Routes to Equity__, edited by Robert D. Bullard, Glenn S. Johnson, and Angel O. Torres. South End Press; Cambridge, Massachusetts, 2004. Pages 2-4.

The need for transportation touches every aspect of our lives and daily routines. The
AND
are stuck with the externalities such as exhaust fumes from other people's cars.


**Racism both perpetrates horrors upon people of color, and, through the systems it enables, is destroying our entire world.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Barndt__,</span> educator, trainer and organizer in the field of racial justice, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">07 </span>(Joseph, __Understanding & Dismantling Racism: the twenty-first century challenge to white America__, p.219-220)

To study racism is to study walls. In every chapter of this book,
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">anti-racist institutions is the path to a racism-free society.</span>

===Contention 2- Methodology=== 


**The 1ac is not just an abstract rejection of whiteness in the world – it is a specific application of genealogy as a method of opening space for previously silenced perspectives on transportation policy. Only interrogating the historical legacy of racial discrimination effectively problematizes the invisible whiteness that structures transportation policy.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa 02 </span>__(Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society, 6/28/12, K.H.)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A critique of the city helps to draw attention to the terrible living conditions in </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
racial dimensions as the city is conflated with "poor people of colour:"

**Our method is a process of thick description we call Assemblage Thinking which eschews attempts at theoretical purity. By doing so we seek to reveal how networked interactions might create opportunities, injustices and new revelations that can facilitate action and forge new modes of critical political agency. This process of radical knowledge production is an inherently unstable process where political goals can only emerge via the process of debate.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McFarlane 11</span>__, (Colin, PhD, Lecturer in the Department of Geography at Durham University. “Encountering, describing and transforming urbanism: Concluding reflections on assemblage and urban criticality,” CITY, VOL. 15, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2011 [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604813.2011.632901]], Pages 734- 739).

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Description can reveal</span>, for instance, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the multiple forms of expression that a given </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">theoretical– methodological orientations that can be picked up and used where useful.</span>

**It’s important to engage our social location as white people in order to create a White Identity not solely determined by the KKK. Absent a recreation of Whiteness, anti-racism must either depict all white people as actively racist or return to the presumed color-blind neutrality that allows the system to remain racist. Therefore we endorse a position of wise whiteness.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shannon __Sullivan, 08__ </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Penn State University, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, Num. 2, Spring 2008, Muse</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Likewise, whiteness need not conflict with membership in humanity as a whole. The </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">races</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as Outlaw does,</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">without depoliticizing the meaning of those differences.</span>

==2AC Anthro (Meadows)== 
**And, only addressing racial and spatial inequality can solve ecological destruction**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Mandell__ ’08</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bekah, * A.B., Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School, “RACIAL REIFICATION AND GLOBAL WARMING: A TRULY INCONVENIENT TRUTH”, Boston Thrid World Law Journal, Spring 2008, p. 3-5]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawmakers and politicians have not taken action to combat climate change because </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">effectively arresting climate</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
//created to construct and perpetuate the concept of race in the United States//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Deep ecology merely perpetuates the imperialist paradigm that have led to environmental destruction; Any change must come from a movement concerned with the human poor who don’t care about the environment aside from how it affects us.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Guha 1989</span>__, (Ramaehandra, Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, and Visiting lecturer at the Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, “Radical American Environmentalism and Wilderness Preservation: A Third World Critique,” Environmental Ethics, Volume 11, Spring 1989, p. 79-82, [[https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CCYQFjAA&url=https%3A%2F%2Fumdrive.memphis.edu%2Fbasmyth%2Fpublic%2FCoursepack%2520for%2520PHIL%25203515%2520Fall%25202011%2FGuha%2520--%2520Radical%2520American%2520Environmentalism%2520and%2520Wilderness%2520Preservation.pdf&ei=FHiHUOiVB8rAigKvp4HACg&usg=AFQjCNGhNS-fketsMsJY4GmK_mIBiKhhPQ]]).

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Deep ecology runs parallel to</span> the consumer <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">society without</span> seriously <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">questioning its</span> ecological and <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">socio</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
preoccupation with wilderness perservation so characteristic of American cultural and environmental history . 17

**Ethical deferral DA- Their prioritization of the environment leads to facism and mass slaughtering of humanity- its moral relativism is just a new way for elites to dismiss the poor of the inner city as not worth saving.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Taylor 96</span>__ (Agnus, Professor of Philosophy @ University of Victoria (Canada), Environmental Ethics, Fall, pg., 249-259)

<span class="UnderlineChar">It would be nonsense to hold that an environmental ethic that emphasizes ecological relations is</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
, although it remains an article of faith that nonhuman individuals may be.

**Selvishness DA- Humans are fundamentally concerned with what affects them directly- harnessing them is key to a coalition strong enough to deal with environmental destruction.**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guha 89</span>__ (Ramachandra, Center for Ecological Sciences @ Indian Institute of Science, Spring, Environmental Ethics, ed. Eugene Hargrove)

(1) Insofar as it has begun to act as a check on man’s
AND
<span class="UnderlineChar">bogy of anthropocentrism is at best irrelevant and at worst a dangerous obfuscation</span>.
== == 

==2AC Cap (Long Beach)== 
**Perm- Vote AFF to endorse ASSEMBLAGE THINKING: the key question is which METHOD produces political change to challenge all oppression. Our method encompasses their K and solves it better than their simple rejection- the 1AC McFarlane evidence argues “description in the context of assemblage thinking examines not just how current conditions are HISTORICALLY DRAWN TOGETHER but to how events disrupt conditions, form new connections, generate different encounters and PRODUCE ALTERNATE URBAN IMAGINARIES.” OUR 1AC WAS THE PERM.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__McFarlane__ 11</span>, (Colin, PhD, Lecturer in the Department of Geography at Durham University. “Encountering, describing and transforming urbanism: Concluding reflections on assemblage and urban criticality,” CITY, VOL. 15, NO. 6, DECEMBER 2011 [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13604813.2011.632901]], Page 733).

For example, one contribution of assemblage thinking here is in the conception of assemblages
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sites that do not just impact, but become realised in everyday urbanisms.</span>


**Second DA- Coalitional Politics.**
**A sub-point- Don’t believe the hype- Every time Marxists reduce their understanding of all other forms of oppression to instances of capitalism it fractures movement and leaves racism intact. There are no singular root causes- only coalitional politics allows each form to be understood in its uniqueness.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gabriel 90</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">, (Satyananda, PhD, Professor of Economics, “The Continuing Significance of Race: AnOverdeterminist Approach to Racism,” Rethinking Marxism Volume 3, Numbers 3-4 (Fall-Winter 1990),</span> <span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@https://www.mtholyoke.edu/courses/sgabriel/racism.html]]</span><span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">).</span>

<span style="color: #222222;">As it turns out, there is a great deal of agreement between the above </span>
<span style="color: #222222;">AND</span>
<span style="color: #222222;">to put an end to such acts of brutality without necessarily eliminating racism.</span>

**B-sub-point- the Gulag- Complete rejection guarantees cooption by tyrannical forces, preventing progressive change. That means only assemblage thinking of the aff allows any change.**
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Ramón </span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grosfoguel</span>__<span style="color: #222222; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Colonial Subjects: Puerto Ricans in Historical Perspective, 20</span>__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">03</span>__

<span style="color: #222222;">All attempts to transform the system in the Caribbean and Central America have been systematically </span>
<span style="color: #222222;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a radical democratic direction</span>__. This is subversion from within the dominant discourses.__

**The fourth disad is Colorblindness- Capital isn’t colorblind and pretending it is makes CONFRONTING the racist structures that enable capitalism IMPOSSIBLE- destroys solvency- allows for the continuation of race-based opposition of welfare and the poor voting against their economic interests.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Hutchinson 10__,</span> (Phillip A., , From His dissertation for a PhD in Cultural Studies, “THE POLITICAL ECONOMY OF COLORBLINDNESS: NEOLIBERALISM AND
THE REPRODUCTION OF RACIAL INEQUALITY IN THE UNITED STATES,” George Mason University, Fall 2010, p. 282-288, [[http://digilib.gmu.edu/dspace/bitstream/1920/6035/1/PHutchison%20dissertation.pdf]]).

At bottom, Michaels has mounted a colorblind offensive on neoliberalism. But as I
AND
and legislation can we fully make sense of the race/class debate.

**Zizek’s alternative is an active call for violent dictatorship- any revolution that hopes to succeed must engage the democratic.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Johnson 11__,</span> (Alan, professor of democratic theory and practice at Edge Hill University in Lancashire, England, “The Power of Nonsense,” Jacobinmag, July 2011, <span style="color: blue;">[[http://jacobinmag.com/2011/07/the-power-of-nonsense/]]</span>)

Mark Lilla in his book The Reckless Mind predicted that the “extraordinary displays of
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">be it!” Nor it seems, does the Left. It should.</span>

==2AC Cap (Emory)== 
**Race is the root cause of capitalism and the emancipation of the Black the only way to break its hold.**
Frank <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson</span> III <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2003</span>, (“The Prison Slave as Hegemony's (Silent) Scandal,” Social Justice, Vol. 30, No. 2 (92), War, Dissent, and Justice: A Dialogue (2003), pp. 18-27, http://www.jstor.org/stable/29768181, p. 21-3).

By examining the strategy and structure of the Black subject's absence in, and incommensurability
AND
record, the play of signifiers that would allow for a sustainable semiotics.

==2AC Earth First (Long Beach)== 

**And, only addressing racial and spatial inequality can solve ecological destruction**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mandell ’08</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Bekah, * A.B., Vassar College; J.D., Boston College Law School, “RACIAL REIFICATION AND GLOBAL WARMING: A TRULY INCONVENIENT TRUTH”, Boston Thrid World Law Journal, Spring 2008, p. 3-5]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Lawmakers and politicians have not taken action to combat climate change because </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">effectively arresting climate</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
//created to construct and perpetuate the concept of race in the United States//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Our human-centered justifications are not competitive with their biocentric ones.**

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plumwood 2</span>__ (Val, Australian Research Fellow @ University of Sydney, Environmental Culture: The ecological crisis of reason, http://esotericonline.net/docs/library/Philosophy/Environmental%20philosophy/Ethics/Plumwood%20-%20Environmental%20Culture.%20The%20Ecological%20Crisis%20of%20Reason%20%282002%29.pdf)

But are we in fact forced to condemn as human-centred all prudential types
AND
<span class="UnderlineChar">the performers up permanently, for example, to use as steps</span>.8

**Exclusive environment focus destroys our ability to take action- it merely obscures our ability to deal with the overconsumption of the elite built on the back of racist justifications.**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Guha 89</span>__ (Ramachandra, Center for Ecological Sciences @ Indian Institute of Science, Spring, Environmental Ethics, ed. Eugene Hargrove)

(1) Insofar as it has begun to act as a check on man’s
AND
<span class="UnderlineChar">bogy of anthropocentrism is at best irrelevant and at worst a dangerous obfuscation</span>.


**An exclusive deep ecology focus justifies facism and mass slaughtering of humanity- it’s just a new way for elites to dismiss the poor of the inner city as not worth saving.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Taylor 96__</span> (Agnus, Professor of Philosophy @ University of Victoria (Canada), Environmental Ethics, Fall, pg., 249-259)

<span class="UnderlineChar">It would be nonsense to hold that an environmental ethic that emphasizes ecological relations is</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
, although it remains an article of faith that nonhuman individuals may be.

==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">2AC Framework (Long Beach)</span>== 

**3. Case outweighs their framework- Racism affects all of us in our daily lives, and threatens to destroy the world entirely- that’s Barndt. Any policy that fails to take structural biases into account will itself lead to racism.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">JCPES 11</span> – The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]

Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">equity is a critical lens through which we</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.</span>

**Any move to methodologically bracket out our discussion cannot be viewed as value neutral, it is the worst form of conservatism favoring the established order at the expense of the oppressed.**
__Meszaros 89__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Istvan, likes Marx not Adam Smith. __The Power of Ideology__, p 232-234)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nowhere is the myth of ideological neutrality – the self-proclaimed //Wertfreiheit// or value</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">relationship between methods and values which no social theory or philosophy can escape.</span>


**Their assumption that education must be predicated off a common understanding silences the minority by forcing them to participate within a paradigm where they are seen as ‘not rational.’**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Secomb 00</span>__(Linnell, a lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney “Fractured Community” Hypatia – Volume 15 Number 2 Spring 2000 pg. 138-139

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This reformulated universalist model of community would be founded on "a moral conversation in</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the dominant modes of authoritative and rational conversation that assume homogeneity and transparency</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>

**And, you are not a policy-maker and pretending you are absolves individual responsibility for violence— this ensures the aff’s impacts are inevitable and is an __independent reason to vote neg__**
__Kappeler95__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We are the war' does not mean that the responsibility for a war is shared</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">result of a collective human choice and therefore subject to human control. 12</span>

**Use of the federal government without previous interrogation of its structures guarantees cooption- it’s an implicit agreement with the status quo mode of acting.**
__<span style="background-color: white;">Singer 1990</span>__ <span style="background-color: white;">[Joseph William, professor of law at Boston University, September, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 11pt;">SYMPOSIUM ON THE RENAISSANCE OF PRAGMATISM IN AMERICAN LEGAL THOUGHT: COMMENT: PROPERTY AND COERCION IN FEDERAL INDIAN LAW: THE CONFLICT BETWEEN CRITICAL AND COMPLACENT PRAGMATISM September, 1990 63 S. Cal. L. Rev. 1821]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Complacent pragmatism uses unreflective common sense to make situated judgments. This version of __pragmatism__</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">one of Hilary Putnam’s “immunizing strategies” by which oppression is rendered invisible</span>__

**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We will disagree that consensus is the necessary foundation for participatory democracy- their framework argument is an attempt to preempt our dissent and expel disagreement and debate from public debate.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Elmer and Opel 8 (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University, and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an Inevitable Future, p. 74-76 , GAL)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Again, preemption is but a means to an end. In this short book</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">the invisible is made visible that widespread resistance can be organized and articulated.</span>

==<span class="underline">2AC Framework (Alta)</span>== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The neg’s authors have a universal “View From Nowhere” which reiterates the cultural strategy of whiteness to perpetuate the political system of white supremacy. This means they have no means for solving for the black body because it is the radix for interpreting all racial experience, and their methodology doesn't account for that.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yancy 05</span>[Journal of Speculative Philosophy, 19.4 (2005) 215-241]
I write out of a personal existential context. This context is a profound source
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">demotion along a scale of human value</span>" (Snead 1994, 4).

==2AC Chow/Speaking For Others== 
**And more evidence from Sullivan:**
Shannon __Sullivan, 08__
Penn State University, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, Num. 2, Spring 2008, Muse
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How then, to quote Outlaw, might we work to critically conserve whiteness without </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">amount of beauty in the world for white people to enjoy and consume.</span>


**3- The Case is a disadvantage to the alt- there’s no way to ever engage with problems that go beyond ourselves in the world of the alternative- that’s guarantees the triumph of racism. Some speaking for others is probably inevitable, but constant interrogation of our privilege means their impacts aren’t.**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Jazeel and McFarlane 09</span>__</span>, (Tariq, PhD in Cultural Geography, Lecturer in Human Geography at The University of Sheffield, and Colin, PhD, Lecturer in the Department of Geography, Durham University, “The limits of responsibility: a postcolonial politics of academic knowledge production,” __Transactions of the Institute of British Geographiers,__ The Royal Geographical Society, 2009. Pages 114-115).

At a banal level, research must be considered as one key optic through which
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they are not simply taken as ‘‘truth’’‘</span> (2008, 496).

==2AC Heidegger== 
**Heidegger’s philosophy by itself guarantees the oppression of the people under the political elite- justifies controlling them from above.**
__Wolin 90__ (Richard, Distinguished Professor of History at the City University of New York Graduate Center, The Politics of Being, P. 46)

The political philosophical implications of this theory are as unequivocal as they are distasteful to
AND
concerning such theories of educational dictatorship: "Who shall educate the educator?”

“**Colorblindness” necessitates the prior identification of race- allows the continuation of oppression through the choice of when to ‘notice’ race. Barndt says that racism enables structures that threaten the entirety of humanity, means if we win a risk they result in colorblindness you vote aff.**
__Espinoza and Harris '97__ /Leslie and Angela, Associate Prof. of Law @ Boston College, and Professor of Law @ UC Berkeley, “AFTERWORD: Embracing the Tar-Baby - LatCrit Theory and the Sticky Mess of Race,” California Law Review, October, [[http://www.latcrit.org/latcrit/welcome/history/js1espinosa%20harris%20afterword.pdf]]).

Critical race scholars have revealed how the dominant society's mythological discourse on race is
AND
foot of injustice remains firmly planted on the throat of racial outsiders. n31

**Eventualization- extend Lloyd from the 1AC- their prioritization of the ontological makes them unable to confront the historical contexts of their actions- guarantees cooption by the system.**
__Wolin 90__ (Richard, Distinguished Professor of History at the City University of New York Graduate Center, The Politics of Being, P. 164)

Heidegger's inability to conceptualize the sociohistorical determinants and character of modern technology raises the oft
AND
behind the difference between everyday (factical) and 'authentic historical existence.'

==2AC Nietzsche (Long Beach)== 
**Perm- Do both: Case is a disadvantage to the alt- any chance that suffering isn’t inevitable means you vote aff. Responsibility born out of genealogy is not the same as totalizing moral responsibility – instead, we have located ourselves as specific individuals who choose to combat the naturalization of an ahistorical narrative on transportation. Affirming life does NOT mean accepting the world as is.**
(David __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Couzens</span>__ Hoy, __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2004</span>__, “David Couzens Hoy is Distinguished Professor of Philosphy Emeritus at the University of California, Santa Cruz.”, Critical Resistance from Poststructuralismto Post-Critique, M.I.T. Press, p.18-29, 6/26/12, K.H.)

In addition to being critical in a positive sense, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">genealogy is a form of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">prevent the affirmative moment from being a moment simply of complicity or conformism</span>.

==2AC Wilderson (Glenbrooks)== 
**Eventualization- Wilderson’s conception of Blackness as an identity always constructed as the absence of whiteness ignores the historical actions that created it- that destroys any chance of tearing down those structures.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Charoenying</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (citing Nelson Maldonado-Torres, Prof of Ethnic Studies, UC Berkeley)</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">8</span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="display: block; font-size: 8pt; text-align: left;">(Timothy, Islamophobia & Anti-Blackness: A Genealogical Approach, http://crg.berkeley.edu/content/islamophobia-anti-blackness-genealogical-approach)</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The year </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1492 marked</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a major turning point in the trajectory of Western Civilization. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the way for the enslavement and human trafficking of sub-Saharan Africans</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The conception of race through a black/white paradigm marginalizes other races, excluding them from relevant discussions**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perea 97</span>__- prof of law @ UF, visiting prof @ Harvard, leading scholar on race and the law
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Juan, “The Black/White Binary Paradigm of Race,” California Law Review//MGD)//</span>
__Paradigms of race shape our understanding of__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> race and our definition of </span>__racial problems.__
__AND__
__those that will not fit the box are often not seen at all.”__

**The affirmative’s choice to frame the nature of oppression through the rhetorical and ideological frame of “social death” entrenches pessimism and despair**
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Brown 09</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Vincent Brown is Professor of History and of African and African-American Studies at Harvard University. AMERICAN HISTORICAL REVIEW, DECEMBER 2009 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://history.fas.harvard.edu/people/faculty/documents/brown-socialdeath.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> liam]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Slavery and Social Death was widely reviewed and lavishly praised for its erudition and conceptual </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is any indication,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the pendulum seems to have swung decidedly toward despair.</span>

**The way we conceptualize whiteness is always tied up with guilt for racism- the alt merely reinforces that.**
Shannon __<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sullivan, 08</span>__
Penn State University, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, Num. 2, Spring 2008, Muse

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Royce’s final suggestion does not directly relate to wise forms of whiteness since whiteness is </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span class="underline">rather than respond to them out of a soul-starved stinginess</span>.52

**Conceptions of human dignity are not all tied to a conception of whiteness- historically it has mobilized thinkers to think of non-Europeans as human.**
__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MUTHU 3</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Sankar, Poli Sci @ Chicago Enlightenment Against Empire p. 266-271 //liam]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Universal Dignity, Cultural Agency, and Moral Incommensurability </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Docommitments to the idea of </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">have to be, given the very nature of our self-knowledge.</span>
=Nuclear City Aff= 
== == 
==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1AC Nuclear City R2 NDCA</span>== 
===Contention 1 – The Nuclear City=== 
**The construction of the highway system was the tool by which the federal government subsidized white flight and segregated wealthy suburban communities from a supposedly violent and diseased city, which in turn reproduced urban blight in the city.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Kuswa 02__ </span>(Kevin Kuswa, Winter 2002, “Dr. Kuswa is the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond and has written on issues of globalization, critical whiteness, and rhetoric. He received his PhD from the University of Texas at Austin in Communication Studies”, SUBURBIFICATION, SEGREGATION, AND THE CONSOLIDATION OF THE HIGHWAY MACHINE, The Journal of Law in Society).

In many ways, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the emergence of suburbia out of the urban city-center </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
our understandings of the highway machine, suburbia, and the urban environment.

**This suburbanization was justified by the rhetoric of containment turned inward- the cities were portrayed as the diseased Other, the quote “dirty negro kid” at ground zero a threat to the American way of life. The American middle class- the last true Americans- were to play the part of Lot in this reenactment of Sodom’s fall, the rational, utilitarian Atomic Boom towns under strict government control the Eden of the future.**
**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Larabee 91 </span>__**Ann Larabee, Canadian Review of American Studies; Vol. 22, Iss. 2, 1991
As Elaine Tyler May has written, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">"containment" was an overarching metaphor for </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">was now envisioned as an empty place, suitable only for transient activity.</span>

**This has produced American inner cities as disposable warehouses for the losers of Free Enterprise, contained through racial and economic divisions. This uniquely makes nuclear first strikes conceivable- they become no longer the ultimate Armaggedon, but the cure to all our social problems.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacCannell</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">prof. environmental design and architecture @ U.C. Davis</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1984</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dean, “Baltimore in the Morning… After: On The Forms of Post-Nuclear Leadership,” //Diacritics//, vol. 14, no. 2, summer, pg.40-46)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Basic Assumptions of the Doctrine of Deterrence and Their Effect on Domestic Structure: 1</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, this time under the banner of American democracy and "Free Enterprise.”</span>

**This is a crucial site in a larger biopolitics of disposability in which anyone who is not useful to the American dream of empire is rendered invisible and left to die. This serves to legitimate an ever-expanding security state in the name of protection from the violence and the crime that has come to be synonomous with the poor blacks trapped in the inner city and threatens the creation of a military dictatorship.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Giroux in 6</span>
Henry A. Giroux, holds the Global TV Network Chair Professorship at McMaster University
AND
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">of those racialized and class-specific groups considered both dangerous and disposable.</span>

**This biopolitical structure leads to genocide and extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Elden</span>, Lecturer in politics at the University of Warwick, England, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2002</span> Stuart, boundary 2 29.1, project muse
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reverse side is the power to allow death. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">State racism is a recoding </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
men to be killed<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (VS, 180; WK, 136</span>)

===Advocacy Statement=== 
We affirm that the United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the United States.

===Contention 2- Methodology=== 
**Every extension of the supposedly benign discourse of enlightenment rationality must end in genocidal war. Just as the present expansion of the security state is contingent on the production of disposable populations, every instance of American imperialism must cast its own metaphysical shadow, produce its own invisible underclass. Any movement that seeks to challenge this must positively affirm presence of this non-being, this shadow that America casts and desperately tries to erase.**
<span class="FontStyle16">**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Spanos in 2K </span>__**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(William, Professor of Comparative Literature, America’s Shadow, 194-6) </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">It revealed that the real projectof the</span> anthropolog­ical<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> discourse inherited by America</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">from the</span>
AND
be adequate to the conditions of the global post-Cold War occasion.

**Specifically, we must trace the presence of Whiteness as a unifying force in the production of that invisible underclass as a method of making-visible.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kuswa</span>__<span class="term1">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">the Director of Debating at the University of Richmond</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2002</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Kevin Douglas, “Sububification, Segregation, and the Consolidation of the Highway Machine,” //Journal of Law in Society,// 3 J.L. Soc’y 31, winter, pg. lexis-nexis)</span>

One of the devastating memories of the highway and suburbia during the middle of the
AND
white privilege manifests through the highway machine and its magnification of the suburb.

**We must transform whiteness based on a recognition of our privilege in order to create a White Identity not solely determined by the KKK. Absent a recreation of Whiteness, anti-racism must either depict all white people as actively racist or return to the presumed color-blind neutrality that allows the system to remain racist. Therefore we endorse a position of wise whiteness.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shannon Sullivan, 08 </span>__
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Penn State University, “Whiteness as Wise Provincialism: Royce and the Rehabilitation of a Racial Category” Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society: A Quarterly Journal in American Philosophy, Vol. 44, Num. 2, Spring 2008, Muse</span>
Likewise, whiteness need not conflict with membership in humanity as a whole. The
AND
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">races</span>, as Outlaw does, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">without depoliticizing the meaning of those differences.</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1AC Round 4</span>== 
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NO advocacy statement</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1AC Round 6</span>== 
Took out second kuswa card

**Thus, we think that we should become race traitors**
Cox in 97
Major W. Cox , Time To Dismantle "Whiteness", http://www.majorcox.com/columns/whitenes.htm, Montgomery Advertiser June 4 1997

Some major universities offer a new area of emphasis: "white studies," or
AND
there will, by definition, be discrimination against those who are not white

**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.**
Brenman ‘7 [Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]

Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute to the separation of races
AND
, poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxes.


===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">2AC Framework</span>=== 
**We’ll impact turn their ground loss- debating disads and counterplans every round locks into a form of worst case scenario planning that already concedes all ground to nuclear strategists, making opposition impossible-means the biopolitics of disposiblity and genocide are inevitable in their framework.**
__MacCannell 84__
Dean MacCannel, Diacritics, 1984

<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Thinking aboutthe "Bomb" always hastaken the form of attempts to bring </span>
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">AND</span>
, one can find evidence of a growing desire to experience the Bomb.

**Exclusion by Rationality- Their assumption that democratic deliberation must be predicated off a common understanding silences the minority by forcing them to participate within a paradigm where they are seen as ‘not rational.’**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Secomb 00</span>__(Linnell, a lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney “Fractured Community” Hypatia – Volume 15 Number 2 Spring 2000 pg. 138-139
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This reformulated universalist model of community would be founded on "a moral conversation in </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the dominant modes of authoritative and rational conversation that assume homogeneity and transparency</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>

**Their demand for control over the form of our protest as evidenced through the demand for a topical version ultimately always guarantees its failure while the preemptive contained within it collapses any possibility for democratic deliberation.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Elmer and Opel 8</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Greg- Director of the Infoscape research lab and Bell Globemedia Research Chair @ Ryerson University, and Andy, associate professor Dept. of Communication @ Florida State University, Preempting Dissent: The Politics of an Inevitable Future, p. 9-16)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">IN 2003 </span><span class="underline">THE PENTAGON RELEASED A PLAN to create a terrorism futures market</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” </span><span class="underline">a </span>
<span class="underline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">articulate a politics of hope in a climate of continued fear and insecurity.</span>

=Negative= 
==Total War K== 
First, security has mutated.
The standard defense paradigm no longer considers individual combatants, but problematizes the “vital nodes” such as transportation systems which enable the smooth functioning of the military-industrial complex. This illuminates the affirmative’s true intentions – militarizing transport does not ensure peace and prosperity, but instead creates a state of emergency where every citizen is a soldier, every product is a weapon, and every uncertainty is a threat that must be eliminated.
Welcome to total war.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Collier and Lakoff 2009 (Stephen J., The New School, New York, and Andrew, University of California, San Diego, “On Vital Systems Security.”)</span>
But the most important area for the initial development of the concepts and techniques of
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
additional meaning, referring to the systems upon which society and economy depend.

Second is biopolitics: By merging the public and private spheres, critical infrastructure protection necessitates a new form of biopolitical control. Under this system, the sovereign has completely dissolved, and the only thing left is a network of biological entities which must be bred for maximum economic efficiency.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Der Derian and Finkelstein 2008 (James, Watson Institute research professor of international studies and professor of political science at Brown University, and Jesse, research assistant, “Critical infrastructures and network pathologies The semiotics and biopolitics of heteropolarity,” ‘//Securing the Homeland': Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (in) security//, p. 84-104, http://www.routledge.com/books/details/9780415441094/.)</span>
This brings us to our second point, which is the biopolitical implication of this
AND
cannot disconnect it from the systems of control and power that produced it.

And, ensuring the health of the social body is the underside of the power to mobilize populations for war. Global extinction would not be possible without the unquestioned biopolitics of the 1AC.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Foucault, in ’76 [Michel, The History of Sexuality, pg. 136-137]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the classical age the West has undergone a very</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> profound transformation of these </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, the race, and the large-scale</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> phenomena of population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Third is the accident:
The aff’s incorporation of the economy into the war effort underlies a broader quest for control where transportation fortifies the states ability to conduct violence. The continued appropriation of space by technologies of speed makes the Earth itself into a battlefield.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Virilio, Curator of the Museum of the Accident, in ‘5 |Paul, Negative Horizon, Pg. 58-9|</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Deterritorialization inaugurates the sublimation of domestic pacification,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the bringing about of great movements of </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">'War must be immediately superimposable on</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> all habitable places in the world'</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

This obsession with speed has two implications. First it makes human’s societal and political interactions undesirable and strips all agency from them by reducing them to pieces of technology. Second, the lust for accelerated modernity leads to irrational, immediate responses, which produces apocalyptic impacts.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kellner 99</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, Douglas Kellner, Ph.D. Philosophy-Columbia University, “Virilio, War, and Technology: Some Critical Reflections”, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://pages.gseis.ucla.edu/faculty/kellner/Illumina%20Folder/kell29.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 6/26/12, [AR]</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Contemporary science and technology for Virilio are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">producing new forms of experience, new </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">and polity, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">also render human participation in politics perplexing and perhaps futile.</span>

Lastly, the alternative is to challenge the logic of security by placing the affirmative’s assumptions within a discursive and historical context. This is not merely a theoretical act, but a rigorous intellectual methodology which is a prerequisite to any sort of political action.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bonditti 2008 (Philippe, visiting fellow at the Watson Institute of International Studies at Brown University, “Homeland security through traceability: Technologies of control as critical infrastructures,” ‘//Securing the Homeland': Critical Infrastructure, Risk and (in) security//, p. 130-149, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 13pt;">[[http://www.routledge.com/books/details/9780415441094/]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">.)</span>
A crucial notion in this task is what Foucault called <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the dispositif</span>, which he
AND
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">both at the micro levels and in the combination of these micro levels.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Security K</span>== 

**The affirmative operates within a framework of nation-state security that leads to serial policy failure.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>(Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in //Theory & Event//, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

This tells us much about <span style="font-size: 10pt;">the enduring power of crude instrumental versions of strategic thought</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">and violence as necessary policy responses</span>, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">however </span>ineffective,<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> dysfunctional or chaotic.</span>

**Insecurity is inevitable – their ontological commitment to global order renders all life calculable and is the root cause of violent conflict.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Burke 7</span>(Anthony Burke, Int'l Studies @ U of New South Wales, “Ontologies of War,” in Theory & Event, Vol. 10, Iss. 2)

By itself, such an account of the nationalist ontology of war and security provides
AND
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">human lives are </span>reduced to tools, obstacles, useful or obstinate matter.

**The alternative is to refuse security – only a radical break allows us to forge new ways of thinking.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, Prof. Professor of the Critique of Political Economy; Head of Department of Politics & History at Brunel University – West London, “Critique of Security,” p. 184-6)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The only way</span> out of such a dilemma, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">to escape the fetish, is</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift.</span>143

==Nietzsche== 
**Attempts to resolve the chaotic aspects of life and avoid suffering require the construction of an ideal world toward which our apparent world aspires. Suffering and antagonism are __inevitable__** aspects of human existence and their focus on the elimination of difference codifies a constant state of emergency into politics.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Saurette 1996</span> (Paul, Prof of Political Studies @ UOttawa, “I Mistrust All Systematizers and Avoid Them: Nietzsche, Arendt, and the Crisis of the Will to Order in International Relations Theory” Millenium 25.1)

According to Nietzsche, <span class="UnderlineChar">the </span>philosophical <span class="UnderlineChar">foundation of a society is the set of ideas </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
transformation,<span class="UnderlineChar"> the Will to Order becomes the fundamental philosophical principle of modernity.</span>

**We are forced to obfuscate our joy in the present world in the hopes of reaching the world of our ideals – this is the __only__ world we’ve got and their direction of hatred against it produces creative impotence and infinite resentment.**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Turanli 2003</span>__ (Aydan, Prof of Humanities and Soc Sciences @ Istanbul Technical Institute, “Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World” Journal of Nietzsche Studies 26) Tyler
<span class="UnderlineChar">The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics</span>. Unlike Wittgenstein, Nietzsche
AND
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">the way out of the fly-bottle</span>" (PI §309).

**Vote negative to renounce the affirmative for its participation in and deployment of memory. The call to __forget__ suffering opens up the only space possible for action freed from the specter of constant anxiety**.
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Zupancic 2003</span>__ (Alenka, Researcher at the Institute of philosophy @ U of Ljubljana, <span class="UnderlineChar">The Shortest Shadow: Nietzsche’s Philosophy of the Two</span>, p. 56-60)

<span class="UnderlineChar">There is</span> also <span class="UnderlineChar">an important difference between forgiving and</span> (what Nietzsche calls) <span class="UnderlineChar">forgetting</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">to us, or everything we do, has to be registered somewhere</span>.
==Borders CP== 
**CP Text: The federal government should [insert aff action]**

**The logic of territorial geopolitics is constructed and constitutive – it underlies a system of control and spatialization. This is not merely an academic concern, geographical language when deployed in the service of politics has unique ramifications and political effects on the construction of knowledge.**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dalby 00</span>__ (Professor of Political Science and Chair of International Governance at the International Studes Association, CIAONet 41th Annual Convention of the ISA )
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">Geopolitics is a term now commonly used to refer to great power rivalries and the </span>
<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">o</span>____<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">f geopolitical reasoning on simple ideological grounds understood</span>__<span style="font-family: Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 6pt;"> (Ó Tuathail, 1996).</span>

**The affirmative’s invocation of the nation-state is neither objective nor benign – their uncritical acceptance of the modern geopolitical map effaces historical violence and legitimates the authority of violent cartographies.**
__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro 97</span>__ (Michael J. Shapiro, Prof. Poli Sci @ U of Hawaii, “Violent Cartographies,” pp. 15-6)

Michel Foucault put the matter of geographic partisanship succinctly when he noted that "<span class="UnderlineChar">territory</span>
AND
of approved sovereignties, <span class="UnderlineChar">it is the primary force determining recognized political subjectivity</span>.

**The impact is global and unending warfare – the strategic deployment of territorial nationalism is the root cause of armed conflict.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">__Shapiro__ __97__</span> (Michael J. Shapiro, Prof. Poli Sci @ U of Hawaii, “Violent Cartographies,” pp. 141-2)

As I showed in my reading of Clausewitz in chapter 2, <span class="UnderlineChar">the outward aiming </span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">AND</span>
<span class="UnderlineChar">the practice and make it the </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">primary mode of national self-recognition</span>.

==Pre-emption== 
===1NC=== 
The spirit of the preemptive haunts the world in the form of military and police measures to exorcise the trauma of 9/11. Only the alternative of standing wholly outside the preemptive can dispel this fixed idea
(rejecting preemption in all other instances doesn’t solve, because we must not retain preemption as the exclusive privilege of the state either.)

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html, GAL)
Fifty years after the text of Minority Report, the spirit of the preemptive is
AND
rush of the preemptive as the normative condition of global peace and security.

College Prep will defend all of the 1ac sans the underview.

The normalization of preemption enables the State’s bio-political capture of the right to life- our criticism is the “minority report” that acts as a prophylactic against the preemptive.

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html, GAL)

… there is no human right more sacred than the right to be alive.
AND
the preemptive, it is all a matter of sending out the prophylaxis.

We ask you to vote negative to wait as an interruption of the preemptive which preserves the right to be alive.

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)

Disagreement here will be the enunciation of wait in response to the preemptive. Indeed
AND
, by saying that there is something not totally right about the preemptive.

===AT Perm=== 
Crowd-out DA: We must remain wholly outside the logic of the preemptive by embracing the alternative ALONE as a counterhypothesis- the preemptive always drowns out any voice which tries to defer it.

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)

Wait At present, the time of the preemptive presents the targeted body without the
AND
a further demand of a disagreeing counter-hypothesis or auto-prophylaxis.

Only a complete break with Precrime solves- the permutation is like Anderton’s decision to shoot- in the end it returns to the normalicy of the pre-crime state.
Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)

So they can see the living proof. You and I together—the killer
AND
a question in disagreement with the preemptive is none other than but now.


The permutation to reject preemption “in all other instances” merely retains the preemptive as the exceptional power of the state- the counterhypothesis must come from the outside the law as a negative disagreement with the preemptive.

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html)

For a critical response to the preemptive, such that a counter-hypothesis to
AND
delays the preemptive so that a prophylaxis can come into negotiation with it.

===2NC !=== 
Their obsession with urgency and desire to gain critical time intensifies the speed of fatality in name of the preemptive. The affirmative prophylaxis against harm becomes a death machine in overdrive.

Goh ‘6 (Irving, recently has been Visiting Fellow at Harvard University, where he worked on a research project on Balibar's philosophy of citizenship. He has also been Research Fellow at the National University of Singapore. His research emphasis is in continental philosophy and its intersections with other disciplines like politics, literature, and architecture, “Disagreeing Preemptive/Prophylaxis: From Philip K. Dick to Jacques Ranciere” Fast Capitalism, 2.1, http://www.uta.edu/huma/agger/fastcapitalism/2_1/goh.html, GAL)

00:00:00 Prophylaxis, a medical term of modern times, denotes
AND
:00:00: the no time of the preemptive/prophylaxis.
==Topicality== 
the violations were substantial, in the united states, and investment

===CCS=== 
**Pipelines are not “transportation infrastructure” --- they’re “energy”**
__Commerce 9/23/10__ (United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index Summary Report”, [[@http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110]]. pdf)

Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure It is important to establish a definition of
AND
purposes of the Infrastructure Performance Index it is considered an element ofenergy infrastructure.

**There are three different types of infrastructure – “energy” and “social” are distinct from “transportation”” -- pipelines are not transportation**
__Commander et al. 10__ ([[http://www.heidrick.com/Consultants/Pages/12189.aspx|Charles Commander]], Sector Leader (Global & Americas) [[http://www.heidrick.com/Consultants/Pages/18522.aspx|Jamie Page]], Sector Leader (EMEA), [[http://www.heidrick.com/Consultants/Pages/15686.aspx|Stafford Bagot]], Sector Leader (APAC), “Engineering, Construction and Infrastructure”, Heidrick & Studies, [[http://www.heidrick.com/ExecutiveSearch/Industry/Industrial/Pages/ECI.aspx]])

While the term infrastructure is widely used to cover a range of asset classes,
AND
and gas distribution pipelines Social - infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and prisons

==Wilderson== 
**The history of transportation in the United States is the spatialization of white supremacy – to speak of transportation is to already speak of race. From the original transportation policy of the Middle Passage to “separate but equal” to the “white flight” of suburbanization, the condition of possibility for the freedom and mobility associated with transportation is the subjugation of raced bodies.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brenman ‘7</span>__<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> [</span>Marc, executive director of the Washington State Human Rights Commission and was formerly senior policy advisor for civil rights at the U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Inequality in the United States: A Historical Overview, Human Rights Magazine Vol. 34 No. 3, http://www.americanbar.org/publications/human_rights_magazine_home/human_rights_vol34_2007.html]

Three major kinds of infrastructure in the United States contribute...AND...poor inner city schools, continuing job discrimination, and regressive taxe<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">s.</span>

**The affirmative positions freedom as a question of reclaiming humanity and participation – this view cannot take into account the gratuitous violence enacted on the slave. Expanding the inclusionary circle of civil society can never include Blackness because it is founded in contradistinction to it – their humanism is birthed from the murder of the slave.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wilderson ’10</span>__ [Frank, Associate Professor at UC Irvine’s Department of Drama and African American Studies, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pp. 21-23]

Again, what is important for us to glean from these historians is that the ...AND...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> Humanism’s hub are anything but infinite—for they have no line of flight leading to the Slave.</span>

**Vote negative to engage in an unflinching structural analysis of the ontological position of Blackness—the very possibility of ethics and freedom resides in a rejection of the affirmative’s ratification of democracy, the state and civil society. Resisting the lure of anti-blackness through a genealogy of history’s constitutive void is the starting point for imagining a new world.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">__Kokontis 2011__ (</span>Kate, PhD in Performance Studies from UC-Berkeley, “Performative Returns and the Rememory of History: genealogy and performativity in the American racial state,” Dissertation available on Proquest)

On one hand, she addresses the literal politics that the theological ...AND...<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> possibilities for reinvention and reconstruction that emerge when faced with profound absence and loss</span>.

**And, the cognitive space of debate is organized around the governing rules of whiteness—the alternative is necessary to provoke an epistemological break that can introduce generative chaos into the closed system of violent racialization. Unless we devise a radically new science of the human, ongoing colonialism, genocides, and nuclear extinction become inevitable.**
__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wynter ‘84</span>__ (Sylvia, Wynter was invited by the Department of Literature at the University of California at San Diego to be a visiting professor for 1974-75. She then became chairperson of African and Afro-American Studies, and professor of Spanish in the Department of Spanish and Portuguese at Stanford University in 1977. She is now Professor Emeritus at Stanford University, “"The Ceremony Must Be Found: After Humanism" Boundary II, 12:3 & 13:1, JSTOR)

The <span style="font-size: 11pt;">social behaviors</span> that were to verify this topos of iconicity which <span style="font-size: 15px; line-height: 22px;">...AND...</span> umbrella site for the transdisciplinary realization of a science of human systems.

==Wilderson (Blake)== 
===1NC=== 
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">**The only ethical demand available to modern politics is that of the Slave and the Savage, the demand for the end of America itself. This cry, born out of the belly of slave ships and the churning vertigo of constitutive genocide, exposes the grammar of the Affirmative’s calls for larger institutional access as a fundamental fortification of White Settler and Slave Master civil society by its diversionary focus on the ethicality of the policies and practices of the United States as opposed to the a priori question its very existence. This silence of the Affirmative’s assumptive logic renders them unaccountable to the revolutionary political ontology of Redness and Blackness and thereby sets the stage for the various dramas of conflictual relationships i.e. class struggle, gender conflict, immigrants rights, etc. that are made possible by the antagonism between Settler and Savage, Master and Slave.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">__Wilderson 2010__ [Frank B., killed apartheid officials in South Africa, nuff said, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 1-5] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">When I was a young student at Columbia University (TO) the close reading of feature films and political theory that follows. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">While the afterlife of slavery is far from an abstraction in the lived reality of blackness, recourse to the sociological empirics of suffering already codifies the category of “exploitation” as the base grammar of suffering, ignoring the gratuitousness of anti-black violence and enshrining the call for more public policy as the limit point of our revolutionary demands. This elides the way in which civil society is parasitic on The Middle Passage and thus how Humanity itself can only be constituted in opposition to the fundamentally anti-Human position of the slave. It is this libidinal economy of anti-blackness which exists as the condition of possibility for the violence of the world. </span>**
__<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Wilderson 2010 </span>__
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">[Frank B., again, dude straight up MURKED white supremacists like buk buk, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages 10-11] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Regatding the Black position, some might ask why (TO) the gates of Columbia University awaits an answer. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Thus we should focus our energies and points of attention on an unflinching paradigmatic analysis that calls for the end of America. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">__Wilderson 2010__ [Frank B., I told you he was on some guerilla shit, Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms, pages ix-x] </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Strange as it might seem, this book project began (TO) Prishani Naidoo, John Shai, and S’bu Zulu. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Life will not change for the better absent an assault on the establishment. That doesn’t mean we will live to enjoy the fruits of the revolution but it DOES mean that we should pursue revolutionary suicide because death is inevitable and this is the only one worth pursuing. </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Huey P. __Newton 1973__, Co-founder of the Black Panther Party for Self-Defense, Revolutionary Suicide, pages 2-6 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Connected to reactionary suicide, although even more painful (TO) The reality will be grimmer. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">I**f our alternative leads to violent revolution, that most definitely solves** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">George __Jackson__, Revolutionary, Blood in My Eye, pages 59-62 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">The enemy culture, the established government (TO) overcoming a determined internal enemy. </span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">**Their calls to prevent wars just gloss over the ongoing living apocalypse for people of color.** </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">__Dylan Rodriguez 2008__, Assistant Professor at University of California Riverside, Abolition Now! P. 93-100 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">We are collectively witnessing, surviving, and working in a time of unprecedented (TO) every attack aborted or drowned in blood.”. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Policy is only going to come after our radical abolitionist pedagogy starts to go into effect, fw hacks take the bench for this round </span>**
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Dylan __Rodriguez__, D Rod Will Make Ya Jump, “Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position”, Radical Teacher, Number 88, Summer __2010__, p. 7-19 </span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">Perhaps, then, there is no viable of defensible pedagogical position (TO) embrace this form of pedagogical audacity.</span>
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; color: #222222; text-align: start;">New 1NC Alt (Semis)</span>=== 

**Vote neg – freedom is an illusion created by the shackles of civil society, we must burn the 1AC to the ground**
__Farley__ __5__ – Boston College
(Anthony, “Perfecting Slavery”, [[http://lawdigitalcommons.bc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1028&context=lsfp]])


What is to be done? Two hundred years ago, when the slaves in
AND
the slave must become to pursue its calling that is not a calling.


=Strat= 
**Wake**
Wake Rd 1: (vs port dredging)
1NC Total War, Case
2NR Total War

Wake Rd 4: (vs Next Gen)
1NC Total War, Case
2NR Total War

Wake Rd 5: (vs Next Gen?)
1NC Security, Case
2NR Security

**Long Beach**
Long Beach rd 1 (vs Disabilities)
1NC Biopolitics K, Wilderson K
2NC Biopolitics, PIC out of (able-bodied?)
1NR Wilderson
2NR Wilderson

Long Beach rd 3 (???)
Total War K

Long Beach rd 6 (vs Tunnel to Russia)
1NC T invest,T us,T substantial, Nietzsche CP, Borders CP
2NC Nietzsche, Borders CP
1NR T invest/subst, US
2NR Borders CP

Long Beach Semis (vs Tunnel to Russia)
1NC Nietzsche,Borders CP, Utopianism bad (case)
2NC Nietzsche, Borders CP
1NR Nietzsche, Case
2NR Borders CP

**Meadows**
Round 1 (vs. Carbon Sequestration)
1NC: Buddhism, T-TI, Kato on No War, case
2NC: Kato/Buddhism
1NR: T
2NR: T

Round 4 (vs. Tunnel to Russia)
1NC Nietzsche, Borders CP, T-US and T- investment, Utopianism Bad
2NC Nietzsche, Borders CP
1NR T, Case
2NR Borders

Round 6 (vs Evacuation Infrastructure)
1NC Nietzsche, Borders CP, T-US and T- investment, Case
2NC Nietzsche, Borders CP
1NR T, Case (+ Chow and Kappler)
2NR Borders CP

**Glenbrooks**

Rd 1 vs Indians
1NC T-in the US, Churchill, case
2NC Churchill
1NR T, Case
2NR Churchill

Rd 3 vs Icebreakers
1NC Spanos, Enviro K on Case
2NC Spanos
1NR Framework, Perm
2NR Spanos

Rd 6 vs Disabilities
1NC Biopolitics K, Wilderson
2NC biopolics
1NR Wilderson
2NR Biopolitics

Round 7 vs CCS
1NC Apocalyptic Enviro Rhetoric, T, Kato on Case, Warming D
2NC Apoc
1NR Kato, Warming D
2NR Apoc

**Alta**

Round 1 vs DAR (Juan Diago)
1NC Security, Heg Bad
2NR Security

Round 4 vs NIB (St. Marks)
1NC total War, Wilderson, case D
2NR Wilderson

Round 6 vs Animal Crossings
1NC Environmental Apocalypse K, Wilderson
2NR Enviro K

Octos vs Sage Ridge
1NC Wilderson, T, Heg Bad
2NR T

**Blake**

Rd 1 (vs. Bronx Science LM)
1NC Wilderson

Rd 4 (vs Glenbrooks South KV)
1NC Wilderson

Round 5 (vs Glenbrook North CH)
1NC Wilderson

Round 7 (vs Greenhill PS) tunnel to russia (co-op)
1NC Wilderson

Doubles (vs. Lexington MR) NIB (race)
1NC Wilderson

Octos (vs Minneapolis South JB)- Trains
1NC Wilderson

Quarters (vs. Carrolton SD) Equity (race and warming)
1NC Wilderson, Warming (basically just D) on Case
2NR Wilderson

Semis vs CKM HS (icebreakers)
1NC Wilderson

Finals vs GBN
1NC Wilderson, Case

**Lexington**

rd 1
Wilderson

rd 3 vs River Hill (Fix-it First as Punative measure)
Wilderson

rd 5 vs Pine Crest (HSR)
Wilderson

**Emory**

Rd 1 vs Cypress (Ban ITS: Patriarchy and Biopower)
Wilderson
PIK out of Disabling in plan text
case

2NC Wilderson, Fem
1NR PIK,

2NR Wilderson

Rd 3 (HSR)
Neolib K, case

Rd 6 (St. Marks, NIB)
Wilderson

Doubles
1NC FW, Nietzsche, Wilderson, Case
2NC Nietzsche
1NR FW
2NR Nietzsche

**Golden Desert**

Rd 1 (ITS w/ warming, cyberattack, (bio?)terrorism, econ)
1NC Wilderson, Case
2NR Wilderson

Rd 4
1NC Nietzsche, Heg bad, case
2NC Nietzsche
1NR Heg bad, case
2NR Nietzsche

Round 6 (Juan Diego Over-identification/Zizek)
1NC Nietzsche, Case defense

Octos (vs. Notre Dame BD, Next Gen)
1NC Wilderson, Case

**Cal**
Round 2 vs GBN CH (Space Elevators- asteroids and warming)
1NC Wilderson, case

Round 3 Bellarmine AM (<span style="line-height: 1.5;">leibniz and mobility)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC Wilderson</span>

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">Round 5 vs Whitney Young DV (NIB?)</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">1NC Wilderson, Pre-emption, Case</span>
<span style="line-height: 1.5;">2NR Wilderson</span>

Triples vs Bingham HT (Ablism, no plan)
1NC Wilderson, FW
2NR Wilderson

Quarters vs St Marks GJ (NIB, econ and Heg)
1NC Pre-emption, Wilderson
2NR Preemption, Condo good

Semis vs GBN KS (Space Elevator, Warming and Asteroids)
1NC Burrow
2NR- Hodge-podge of K stuff

**NDCA**

R1 vs John's Creek DX (nuclear highways)
1NC T- Investment/Framework, Nietzsche, Counter-geneology, Cede the political
2NC Nietzsche, geneology
1NR Framework, cede pol
2NR Framework, cede pol


R3 vs MBA BR (Weather-resilient infrastructure w/ econ, heg)
1NC Wilderson, Case D
2NC Wilderson
1NR, Wildrson, Case D?
2NR Wilderson

R5 vs Damien MR (Port Dredging w/ Econ, India Relations, Heg)
1NC Wilderson, Free trade-> econ collapse
Block: Wilderson
2NR: Wilderson

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]