[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
I affirm the resolution resolved: the United States ought to guarantee universal health care to its citizens.
I value justice, defined as giving each their due. However, normative claims must be universalizeable.
<span class="Underline">**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Hare</span>**</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">R.M. Objective Prescriptions. //Philosophical Issues//. 1993.</span>
Moral judgments must be agent-objective and universalizeable for there to be a consistent moral system. This means rational actors must be able to universally agree to a moral framework for it to have any weight. The original position uniquely allows for this.
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rawls,</span>__**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">John. A Theory of Justice. 1971.</span>__
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Thus the principles of the original position because they are agent objective. This makes them universally binding, as all rational actors could agree to adhere to them.</span>
**__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Freeman </span>__**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Samuel, "Original Position",</span> //<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Spring 2009 Edition)</span>//<span style="background-color: white; font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Edward N. Zalta (ed.), URL = <http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/spr2009/entries/original-position/>.</span>
Thus the value criterion is consistency with the principles determined in the original position.
Prefer this criterion because
1. In the original position, individuals freely agree to principles of justice that will minimize disadvantages and create a just society. This inherently promotes the greatest good possible by ensuring equality of opportunity while respecting individual worth by taking into account all relevant perspectives and preventing members of the society from taking advantage of others.
2. The government is the actor in the resolution, and government agents must be able to objectively make decisions that will support the common good rather than basing their decisions on their personal interests. Adhering to principles determined in the original position also gives the government legitimacy because and all rational agents could agree to follow them, which creates order in society.
3. The principles of the original position are universalizable, which allows for moral consistency and prevents morality from dissolving into competing subjective claims that cannot be resolved.
Contention 1: In the original position, actors would will universal health care because they would want to ensure they would have access to it regardless of their position in society.
A. Moral agents would want universal health care because they would not want to have to suffer or die if they could not afford coverage. Furthermore, they would try to create equal opportunity in society.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Norman </span>**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Daniels</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Health-Care Needs and Distributive Justice.” </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Philosophy & Public Affairs</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , Vol. 10, No. 2 (Spring, 1981), pp. 146-179</span>

Without universal health care, those who cannot afford health insurance are severely disadvantaged because they have no recourse if they fall ill and are unable to work efficiently, which causes them to suffer financially and perpetuates poverty and economic inequality. Guaranteeing universal health care would help create equal opportunities in society by ensuring that no one has to suffer for lack of access to medical treatment. This is crucial given the number of Americans who do not have access to basic health insurance.
Lamar**Odom** <span style="font-size: 9pt;">(not that one)</span>**[et al]**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (School of Business and Leadership, Our Lady of the Lake University, San Antonio, Texas, USA, University of Northern Colorado, Greeley, Colorado, USA, and Capital University Law School, Columbus, Ohio, USA) </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Richard Owen and Amina Valley</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (School of Leadership Studies, Our Lady of the Lake University, San Antonio, Texas, USA), and </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Phillip Burrell</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (School of Business, Texas State University, San Marcos, Texas, USA), (</span>**2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">),"Obamacare: an ethical analysis of his leadership and the health reform initiative", Leadership in Health Services, Vol. 24 Iss: 4 pp. 325 – 336</span>

B. Universal health care alleviates racial inequalities.
**__Leonard 12__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard|Dr. David J. Leonard]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Author, Educator Got Solutions? Beyond Denial and Toward Transformation (Part 2) Posted: 09/07/2012 9:40 am. Huffington Post. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/dr-david-j-leonard/got-solutions-beyond-deni_b_1850958.html]]</span>

In the original position, actors would will universal health care in order to decrease racial disparities and ensure that they could receive health care regardless of their race. If the government must provide health care to everyone, this would eliminate the discrimination present in the private sector.
C. Victims of HIV and AIDS often do not have access to health insurance.
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">US Department of Health and Human Services</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">AIDS.gov. “Health Care Reform and HIV/AIDS”. June</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">2012.</span>

Since moral agents in the original position would not know whether or not they would have HIV or AIDS, they would want to ensure that people with these diseases can receive health care. This is especially true because there is a high risk of them acquiring AIDS and even a risk of extinction because of it.
**__Mutuma__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mathiu, AFRICA NEWS, July 15, 2000, http://209.85.165.104/search?q=cache:6tm_9OIp4c8J:www.healtoronto.com/mbeki/Kommentare.rtf+Every+age+has+its+killer.+But+Aids+is+without+precedent.+It+is+comparable+only+to+the+Black+Death+of+the+Middle+Ages+in+the+terror+it+evokes+and+the+graves+it+fills.+But+unlike+the+plague,+Aids+does+not+come+at+a+time+of+scientific&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=1&gl=us</span>

A government-sponsored health care system would guarantee coverage that is not available in the private sector. This is necessary to prevent the existential risk of AIDS and is consistent with the principles of the original position because rational agents would want to prevent existential risks because they would not know what generation they belong to and would want to prevent extinction so they would have the chance to be born in the first place. Thus you affirm.
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]