[[toc]]
=Email= 
cowsgomooxd@gmail.com <----
hit me up if you cites to things that aren't on here. >.<
=September-October (Non-citizens accused of terrorism)= 
==Affirmative== 
===Fasching AC=== 

The framework
There are two types of theologies that determine how we understand identity.
1. Apologetic theology views otherness as inferior and a threat to their "Truth." This approach to the stranger guarantees conflict that culminates in nuclear apocalypse.
2. Alienated theology rejects our own version of truth and instead seeking truth through difference and the experience of the stranger.====
Fasching explains:
Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, 1993, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima,
The best way to describe the "style" of the theology of culture proposed
AND
dark and threatening cloud of a nuclear apocalypse that such a path risks.

Thus, I value morality.
The criterion is embracing alterity through an alienated theology.

Contention level
The foundational logic behind the status quo is one of hatred of difference. Instead we must deconstruct the sacred narrative of citizenship and create a true openness to the stranger that affirms their dignity.
Darrell J. Fasching, Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, 1993, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, pg. 287-290
Human rights and human liberation depend on a fundamental reversal and transformation
of the dominant family of mythological narratives that have shaped human existence the myths of
AND
the infinite to self-transcendence and the utopian possibilities of the human.

Resentment lies at the root of individual and social violence, culminating in nuclear weapons
Ofelia Schutte, Philosophy at University of Florida, 2005, "Envy and the dark side of alienation" [[http://www.springerlink.com/content/l8q46h5702u06v19/-http://www.springerlink.com/content/l8q46h5702u06v19/|http://www.springerlink.com/content/l8q46h5702u06v19/]]
The redemption of the human being from the slave consciousness, and only this redemption
AND
that will confirm rather than deny the human aspiration for harmony and freedom.

Giving due process rights solves – this affirms human dignity
David Cole, Professor of Law Georgetown University Law Center (cole@law .georgetown.edu) ~~[Are Foreign Nationals Entitled to the Same Constitutional Rights As Citizens? March 2010. 25 T. Jefferson L. Rev. 367-388. http://scholarship.law.georgetown.edu/facpub/297~~]
The normative idea underlying this broad consensus is that fundamental rights are owed to persons
AND
, these rights are "implicit in the concept of ordered liberty."32

Instead of acting on how things are, we should strive to act in ways that ought to be.
Fasching 1993(Darrell J., Professor of Religious Studies at University of South Florida, The Ethical Challenge of Auschwitz and Hiroshima, Pp. 132-133)
If ethics involves a mode of consciousness that embraces a utopian or fictional view of
what human life could be, as if it were more real than reality itself, then it would seem that
the utopianism of modern technological consciousness, with its drive to transform reality
into something as yet only imagined, should lend itself well to the ethical mode of
consciousness. That, however, is not the case. This is because modern
AND
, opening the past and present to the utopian possibilities of the future.
==Negative== 

=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]