[[toc]]
=September-October= 
==Affirmative== 
**I value morality.** 

The utility of a society only has value when its individuals are treated with dignity. A free society that sacrifices some of its own individuals to prevent human extinction is morally corrupt.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shue 89 </span>– Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University (Henry, “Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, pp. 141-2)

**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">If the law is based on a basic understanding of equality, then its protections should extend to all people</span>**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Robin **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">West, </span>****Professor of Law, Georgetown University Law Center, 2000** (QUINNAPAC LAW REVIEW, Is the Rule of Law Cosmopolitan? p. 278)</span>

1. Modern, Western society relies on the ritualized sacrifice of a scapegoated Other. The resolution posits this other as the “terrorist” and suggests that we include them in our society. We ratify this act because it is the most pure form of ethical engagement. Only acts of openness and hospitality give us the tools to __truly__ prevent violence in the international system.
<span class="cite0">Kearney1999</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Richard Kearney, Richard Kearney is the Charles Seelig professor of philosophy at Boston College and has taught at many universities including University College Dublin, the Sorbonne, and the University of Nice, July 1999, Cultural Values Vol. 3, No. 3, “Aliens and Others: Between Girard and Derrida,” http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=d255f4f3-45d2-483b-9065-cb94d94874bf%40sessionmgr115&vid=1&hid=108&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=aph&AN=3252034.)</span>

**The notion that the US should exclude those accused of “terrorism” from inclusion in our community reifies a juridical conception of borders that justifies violence. The nation-state boundary is the fundamental cause of warfare and violence – the illusory borders that let us conceive of the US as the “inside” and the homeland of the terrorist other as the “outside” create the conditions for the worst forms of genocide and violence.** 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shapiro 97</span>(Michael, really smart dude, //Violent Cartographies,// pp. 124-129)

**Second. A totalizing, exclusionary perspective on terrorism is the foundation of __bad policy__. Only a reconceptualization of the language and metaphors we use to describe the other can provide us with the tools to get to the __roots__ of terrorism.**
**Zulaika 03**
Joseba Zulaika, (Professor, Center for Basque Studies), Radical History Review, Issue 85 (winter 2003), ebsco

<span class="Underline">Radical hospitality deconstructs victimization and scapegoating and provides solvency</span>
<span class="cite0">Kearney1999</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Richard Kearney, Richard Kearney is the Charles Seelig professor of philosophy at Boston College and has taught at many universities including University College Dublin, the Sorbonne, and the University of Nice, July 1999, Cultural Values Vol. 3, No. 3, “Aliens and Others: Between Girard and Derrida,” </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=d255f4f3-45d2-483b-9065-cb94d94874bf%40sessionmgr115&vid=1&hid=108&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=aph&AN=3252034|http://web.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail?sid=d255f4f3-45d2-483b-9065-cb94d94874bf%40sessionmgr115&vid=1&hid=108&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=aph&AN=3252034]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">., //azp//)</span>

==Negative== 
**v- I value morality.** 

vc- The utility of a society only has value when its individuals are treated with dignity. A free society that sacrifices some of its own individuals to prevent human extinction is morally corrupt.
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shue 89 </span>– Professor of Ethics and Public Life, Princeton University (Henry, “Nuclear Deterrence and Moral Restraint, pp. 141-2)
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Given the philosophical obstacles to resolving moral disputes, there are at least two approaches one can take in dealing with the issue of the morality of nuclear strategy.</span>

Attempting to solve for structural problems through a flawed legal system inevitably fails. we are forced to sacrifice the opportunity to solve the root causes by restricting ourselves within the system. By bringing terrorists into the system, we fail to solve and increase the Biopower.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown and Halley, 02</span> (Wendy Brown-Professor of Political Science and women’s studies at University of California, Berkley and Janet Halley-Professor of Law at Harvard University. “Introduction”. Left Legalism/Left Critique. Editors: Wendy Brown and Janet Halley. Duke University Press. P. 19-20)
<span class="DebateUnderline">**Legalism**</span> not only carries a politics (and liberal legalism carries a very specific politics) but also incessantly <span class="DebateUnderline">**translates wide-ranging political questions into more narrowly framed legal questions**</span>.

The judicial system is a means for assigning and codifying sovereign power and biopolitical control. 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dean</span>, Professor: Macquarie University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">02</span>(Mitchell Dean, “Powers of Life and Death Beyond Governmentality”, //Cultural Values,// August 28,2002)
The <span class="DebateUnderline">constitutional and juridical framework rests on something external to itself </span>which both establishes it and which it claims to regulate, but which it cannot constitute.

**Under biopolitics liberal society becomes genocidal - the goal of administering life and health at the level of the biopolitics necessitates the expulsion of difference - the impact is extinction.**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Kasper </span>**Hoffmann**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, International Development Studies at Roskilde University, May 20</span>**07**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Militarised Bodies and Spirits of Resistance, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://diggy.ruc.dk:8080/handle/1800/2766]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">In modern forms of government, concepts of the norm and normal have played a kindmediating role in the formulation and execution of normative projects (Canguilhem2005 [1966]; Ewald 1990). __It is through the systematic **accumulation of knowledge** about certain social problems and deviations that we come to **know the normal** and the norm that stabilise and indicate it in social contexts__ (Ewald 1990: 140).</span>

**The impact is extinction. Only through an aesthetics of resistance—questioning and criticizing the norms which have invented and produced our identity—can we open up space for liberation and subvert the violent hegemony of disciplinary power.** 
(we must change our scientific approach to thinking and make it an artistic one)

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">W.</span>**Bernauer**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Professor of Philosophy at Boston College, 19</span>**92**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, Critical Essays on Michel Foucault, ed. Racvskis, pg 190-193</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The title of this paper alludes less to Nietzsche than it does to a desire and a problematic. Mine, but also, I would claim, Foucault’s in the last stage of his thought. Michel Foucault was often disappointed with the philosophical community’s reception of his works, its misunderstanding of their aims and its neglect of their problematics.</span>


=November-December= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=January-February= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

=March-April= 
==Affirmative== 
==Negative== 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]