[[toc]]
__Contact Info:__
Aff cites email - jhester13@heritagehall.com
Neg cites email - opanchal13@heritagehall.com
=Affirmative= 
==ERAM== 

==Contention 1 Inherency== 
$63 billion in funding for NextGen was approved in 2012
**Grady** 1/31/20**12** [Mary, Contributing editor for AV Web, article approved by the FAA, “Four-Year FAA Funding Bill Accelerates NextGen”, http://www.avweb.com/avwebflash/news/FourYearFAAFundingBillAcceleratesNextGen_206117-1.html]

For about five years, the FAA has limped along with 23 short-term
AND
before Feb. 17, when the current short-term bill expires.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">But, En Route Automation Modernization program funding was cut to zero this will cripple air traffic modernization efforts </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perera, David Perera is executive editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group, Novemeber 2011 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“congress says no to upgrade in ERAM funding” Fiercegovernment.com, http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/congress-says-no-eram-upgrade-funding/2011-11-20)</span>
Among the notable cuts made for fiscal 2012, which began Oct. 1 (
AND
to replace voice communication between air traffic controls and cockpits with text messages.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">And a full commitment is necessary to implement ERAM</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rinaldi, President of National Air Traffic Controllers Association, 9-12-2012</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Paul, testimony before the House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Aviation, “A Review and Update on the Management of FAA’s NextGen Program,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyAviation/2012-09-12-Rinaldi.pdf]]</span>, September 12, 2012]jh</span>

Barriers<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: </span>//ERAM faces one significant challenge: insufficient resources to test and deploy//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>There simply aren't enoughCertified<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Professional </span>Controllers in the field to assist the facilities in testing ERAM software, especially when multiple facilities are scheduled to conduct tests simultaneously. Additionaltrained personnel will be necessary<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in order to stay on schedule</span> and on budget.


====Thus the plan:==== 
The United States federal government should implement En Route Automation Modernization.

==Contention 2: Data Comm== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">ERAM is key to achieve DataComm capabilities</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Perera, Executive Editor of the FierceMarkets Government Group, 2012 </span>
(August 9, “FAA Datacomm delayed 2 years”, http://www.fiercegovernmentit.com/story/faa-datacomm-delayed-2-years/2012-08-09)
In a Transportation Department office of inspector general report (.pdf) dated Aug.
AND
in order to reduce fuel consumption and emissions and lower airline operating costs.
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">We’ll isolate two scenarios, 1---Europe</span>==== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The transatlantic alliance is in jeopardy – Europe needs a show of commitment </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sloan, Director of the Atlantic Community Initiative and visiting scholar at Middlebury College, Sept. 5, 2012</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[Stanley, “America’s Euro Fatigue,” Atlantic Council at 50, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/americas-euro-fatigue]]</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">]</span>

At a time when the United States and all its allies are looking at years
AND
that is engaged in their region is backed up by solid transatlantic ties.
Data Comm is critical to increasing co-operation and ensuring a long-term alliance with Europe
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dillingham, Director Physical Infrastructure Division Government Accountability Office November 11 </span>
(Gerald L. Dillingham, GAO “NEXT GENERATION ¶ AIR ¶ TRANSPORTATION”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/581393.pdf]]</span>)

However, although FAA and SJU worked out technical differences in their ¶ data communications
AND
across agency boundaries, and can prevent misunderstandings ¶ between the two sides.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US-EU co-op over technology and economic issues will lead to a peaceful resolution to China’s rise</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Westand, Professor of International History at the London School of Economics and Political Science, 2011</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Odd Arne, “China and Europe: Opportunities or Dangers?,” Dahrendorf Symposium, a joint initiative of the Hertie School of Governance and London School of Economics and Political Science, http://www.dahrendorf-symposium.eu/fileadmin/Content_Images/Papers/Dahrendorf_Symposia_Series/Dahrendorf_Symposia_Series_2012_03.pdf]</span>

Some of the development of the relationship between China and Europe will be not be
AND
a more coherent European approach to the rise of China may be expected.¶

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chinese Power grab in the south China will lead to conflict</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wesly,</span>the executive director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy, Sept 10, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> (Michael, “Escalating Tensions in the South China Sea”, http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/escalating-tensions-the-south-china-sea-7414)¶
Two sets of disputes make the South China Sea more dangerous and unpredictable than the
AND
a Chinese ship ran aground on an island claimed by both Beijing and Manila
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US-China conflict goes nuclear</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NY Times 6/12 </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">(“Avoiding a U.S.-China War ,” June 12, 2012, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html)</span>
In East Asia, things are very different. For most of its history,
AND
— for example in Washington’s neglect of the crumbling states of Central America.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wittner 11 </span>(Lawrence, Professor of History emeritus at SUNY/Albany, “Is a Nuclear War With China Possible?,” November 30, 2011, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/lawrence-wittner/nuclear-war-china_b_1116556.html)
But what would that "victory" entail? An attack with these Chinese nuclear
AND
that of the world, they should be working to encourage these policies.

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">US EU co-operation and cohesion is critical to solve multiple scenarios for extinction</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 13pt;">Stivachtis, </span>****<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ph.D. in Politics and International Relations, Lancaster University</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">, 10</span>
<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">(Dr. Yannis A., Director of International Studies Program – Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Professor of Political Science – Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and, “The Imperative for Transatlantic Cooperation”, Research Institute for European and American Studies,</span> <span style="font-family: Arial;">[[http://www.rieas.gr/research-areas/global-issues/transatlantic-studies/78.html]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">)</span>




<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">There is no doubt that </span>US-European relations are in a period of transition<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">, and that the stresses and strains of globalization are increasing both the number and the seriousness of the challenges that confront transatlantic relations.</span>
The events of 9/11 and the Iraq War have added significantly to these
AND
require further cooperation among countries at the regional, global and institutional levels.
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">Therefore, </span>//cooperation between the U.S. and Europe is more imperative than ever//to deal effectively with these problems. <span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 9pt;">It is fair to say that the challenges of crafting a new relationship between the U.S. and the EU as well as between the U.S. and NATO are more regional than global, but </span>the implications of success or failure will be global.</span>
====Scenario 2 is interoperability==== 
the plan is essential to US/EUROPE interoperability
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carey, </span>**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">senior editor with Aviation International News he served for more than four years as editor in chief of Avionics Magazine he chaired the Avionics Europe conference in Amsterdam in 2007 and 2008, Oct 10, 20**11**</span>
(Bill, “Contractors Eye Data Comm Program as Standards Evolve”, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/ain-air-transport-perspective/2011-10-10/contractors-eye-data-comm-program-standards-evolve]])

The FAA plans to deploy data communications in ATC towers by 2014 to transmit departure
AND
U.S., but to the same end,” the letter states.
US-EU coordination causes global interoperability on aviation
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Platteau, Chief of Communication and Stakeholders Relations, 08</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eric Platteau, Chief of Communication and Stakeholders Relations, talks to his colleagues Michael Standar and Peter Hotham, respectively Chief Operational Concept and Validation, and Chief Architect, at the SESAR JU, 08, [“SESAR: solving a European problem,” Skyway Volume 12, Number 49, Autumn 2008 Focus on: SESAR & NextGen, </span>[[http://www.eurocontrol.int/sites/default/files/content/documents/official-documents/skyway/2008-Autumn-Skyway49.pdf|www.eurocontrol.int/sites/default/files/content/documents/official-documents/skyway/2008-Autumn-Skyway49.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">]</span>

Europe and the United States aim at delivering transformed, interoperable ATM systems with enhanced
AND
offering an equally appropriate response once the issue arises elsewhere in the world.
International aviation coordination solves Aviation Pollution
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Inderwildi 2012, </span>Science and Engineering at the University of Heidelberg, the Swiss Institute of Technology and the University of Amsterdam. economics and policy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and London School of Economics and Political Science. Oliver became a research fellow at the University of Cambridge ET Al Feb 19 2012 (Dr Christian Carey (Aviation), Dr Georgina Santos (Economics), Dr Xiaoyu Yan (Fuels), Hannah Behrendt, Aaron Holdway, Laura Maconi, Nicholas Owen, Tara Shirvani, Alex Teytelboym, “Future of Mobility Roadmap”, Smth School of enterprise and the Environment, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.smithschool.ox.ac.uk/wp-content/uploads/2010/02/Future_of_Mobility.pdf]]</span>)

Air Traffic Management is defined in the ICAO Global Air Traffic Management Operational Concept as
AND
(FUA) concept where airspace is assigned on user requirement[94].
EU US tech will be adopted by other countries- inability to develop their own
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dillingham, </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">Director Physical Infrastructure Division Government Accountability Office</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> November 11 (Gerald L. Dillingham, GAO “NEXT GENERATION </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">AIR </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRANSPORTATION”, http://www.gao.gov/assets/590/581393.pdf)</span>
¶ FAA officials in the ATO’s International Office, as well as those ¶ ¶
AND
, before the formal collaborative ¶ ¶ procedures were established by the 2011 MOC
Improving flight efficiency is critical to combat warming. Airline industries impact is unique and produces multiple gases & causes
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">COPOCCITTI, KLARE, & MILDENBERGER 10 1. Aviation Industry Consultant 2. Centre for Innovative Management - Athabasca University 3. IPE Media University Stuttgart [</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Sam Capoccitti 1, Anshuman Khare 2, Udo Mildenberger 3, Aviation Industry - Mitigating Climate Change Impacts through Technology and Policy, Journal of Technology Management & Innovation v.5 n.2 Santiago ago. 2010, http://www.scielo.cl/scielo.php?pid=S0718-27242010000200006&script=sci_arttex]</span>

Environmental impact of Flight¶ The main environmental concerns associated with aircraft are climate change
AND
minimize the impact of non CO2 emissions; optimize aircraft speed; etc.)
Integrated Air traffic control reduces 40 million tons of CO2 each year – cost efficient flights and removes pollutants
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richard 11 – Editor of transportation, science, and technology, for treehugger.com from Discovery Channel, (Michael Graham Richard, Computerized Air-Traffic Control Could Save CO2 Equivalent of Denmark's Economy” [http://www.treehugger.com/aviation/computerized-air-traffic-control-could-save-co2-equivalent-whole-denmark-economy.html]</span>
If you are going somewhere in a vehicle that burns a lot of fossil fuels
AND
can improve the capacity of the air space between 3 and 10 percent.
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Climate change is comparatively the major existential threat</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doebbler 11. Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer. Two threats to our existence. Ahram Weekly. July 2011. http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm</span>

Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity. It will
AND
and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.

Warming is real, anthropogenic, and happening now
Braganza 6/14/11 (Karl, Manager, Climate Monitor at the
AND
and has no relevant affiliations “The greenhouse effect is real: here’s why
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” http://theconversation.edu.au/the-greenhouse-effect-is-real-heres-why-1515, AM)</span>

In public discussions of climate change, the full range and weight of evidence underpinning
AND
That continued rapid increases in greenhouse gases will cause rapid future warming is irrefutable


==Contention 3: ATC== 
Air traffic will double by 2025 bringing a total system collapse absent ATC upgrades
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13pt;">Williams 9</span><span style="font-family: Cambria;"> (Genevra, J.D. Candidate at Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law and B.B.A. from the University of Iowa, “GPS For The Sky: A Survey of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-(ADS-B) and its Implementation in the United States”, Journal of Air Law and Commerce, Spring, 74 J. Air L. & Com. 473, Lexis)</span>

DESPITE ALL of the modern technological advances that everyday consumers enjoy, the United States'
AND
use of ADS-B in most U.S. aircraft. 11
This survey of ADS-B technology aims to give aircraft owners and their counsel
AND
optimistic that funding for ADS-B will be supported by his department.
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">I. A STORM IS BREWING: CROWDED SKIES, RUNWAY SHORTAGES, AND A LABOR CRISIS PUSH THE U.S. AVIATION INFRASTRUCTURE TO THE BRINK OF BREAKDOWN</span>
Delays at the airport have been the media story de jure for the past two
AND
. Absent modernization, the consequences will be a total system collapse." 43
ERAM replaces host and the problems that come with it
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO November 2011 </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">(JayEtta Z. Hecker, Beverly L. Norwood, Tamera Dorland, Elizabeth Eisenstadt, Brandon Haller, Bert Japikse, Carolyn Kirby, Steve Martinez, Richard Scott, Adam Vodraska, and Dale Yuge, “Air traffic control”, </span>[[http://www.gao.gov/assets/250/244791.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

The En Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) program will enable air traffic controllers to
AND
ERAM is to be deployed at 20 ARTCCs in the continental United States.

And, airports are key to millions of jobs and account for 8 percent of U.S. GDP
<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 13pt;">Principato 12</span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria;">— </span>**<span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">President of Airports Council International-North America, which represents local, regional and state governing bodies that own and operate commercial airports (Greg, “Why we should invest today in 'Airports Inc.'”, The Hill, 3/27/2012, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://thehill.com/blogs/congress-blog/labor/218525-faa-why-we-should-invest-today-in-airports-inc]]</span><span style="font-family: Cambria; font-size: 8pt;">)//Bwang</span>
With the latest Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) forecast predicting a doubling of passengers
AND
airports are recognized as America’s economic engine – where job creation takes off.

Independently, failing ATC wrecks US competitiveness and the aerospace industry---crushing the economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blakey 11</span> (Marion, president and CEO of the Aerospace Industries Association, "US Tech Lead in Jeopardy”, Aviation Weekly, EBSCO)

But with budget worries crowding out all other concerns in Washington these days, this
AND
that air travel continues to connect our people and drive innovation and growth.
Economic problems in aviation spread globally due to interconnectedness of air transportation

IATA, 2008
<span style="font-family: Cambria;">(International Air Transport Association, “Aviation Economic Benefits”, http://www.iata.org/SiteCollectionDocuments/890700_Aviation_Economic_Benefits_Summary_Report.pdf) Megan</span>
Global economic growth is a key driver of growth in air traffic demand. However
AND
between businesses and providing greater access to resources and to international capital markets.
It’s reverse causal – ATC failure collapses the global economy
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AIA 11</span> (Aerospace Industries Association, “Civil Aviation – Second to None”, http://www.aia-aerospace.org/assets/ip_civil_2011.pdf)

ISSUE: The U.S. civil aviation industry plays a vital role in
AND
aerospace industry remains the single largest contributor to the nation’s balance of trade,
with $87 billion in exports and a $57.4 billion trade surplus
AND
cost of system delay will likely eclipse $40 billion annually by 2012.
Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Duncan, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, 12</span>
[Richard, __The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy__, 2012, ebook]bg

The political battle over America’s future would be bitter, and quite possibly bloody.
AND
arsenal would make it Asia’s undisputed superpower if the United States were to withdraw
from the region. From Korea and Japan in the North to New Zealand
AND
by an even more calamitous global war that killed approximately 60 million people.

===A2 elections=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NextGen has massive industry support – Ohio and Florida love the plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PR Newswire 8-17</span>-12 (“Nationwide NextGen Alliance Surpasses 1,000 Members;
Business Community Signals that NextGen Means Business,” Lexis)
The National Alliance for the Advancement of NextGen (NAANG) has surpassed 1,
AND
in technologies for air traffic with safety and increased efficiencies for future growth."

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ohio is critical – most important swing state</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silver 8-30</span>-12 (Nate, “Aug. 29: So Much Depends Upon Ohio,”
http://fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/08/30/aug-29-so-much-depends-upon-ohio/#more-33851
The broader point is simply that Ohio is so important to the electoral calculus that
AND
, Wisconsin, Florida or North Carolina to put him over the top.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Florida key swing state – size and history</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AP 6-19</span>-12 (“Obama's aim in Florida? Keep pressure on Romney,” http://www.foxnews.com/us/2012/07/19/in-florida-obama-aims-to-keep-pressure-on-romney/)
Florida is the largest and most coveted of the nation's Election Day toss-up
AND
Obama campaign spokesman Ben LaBolt. Both sides are jockeying for an advantage.

==New ADV UAV== 
Military and civilian UAV use is inevitable and proliferating—but civilian uses benefit society
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zenko, Fellow for Conflict Prevention at the Council on Foreign Relations, 12 </span>
[Micah, “10 thing you didn’t know about drones,” __Foreign Policy__, March/April 2012, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/02/27/10_things_you_didnt_know_about_drones?page=0,3]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4. </span>The scope of U.S. m...............minutes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>


And, ERAM is necessary for NextGen to function
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Poole 12,</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">director of transportation policy at Reason Foundationan MIT-trained engineer, has advised the Ronald Reagan, the George H.W. Bush, the Clinton, and the George W. Bush administrations, Feb 12 (Robert, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90 “Data Comm Finally Moving Forward, http://reason.org/news/show/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rather than........ systems are implemented.</span>

NextGen is vital to the growth of the unmanned drones industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Taggart 12</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Doug, Chair of Committee on Transportation and Aerospace Policy for IEEE-USA, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, President of Overlook System Technologies, Past AAAS Congressional Fellow, 2/1, “Upgrading the National Airspace System”, [[http://ieeeusa.org/volunteers/committees/grc/EAgenda/2012Feb/tab3c.pdf]])</span>
__Growth in air t.................__**__growth of this industry.__**

NextGen solves – congested airspace and lackluster technology are largest hurdles to domestic drone usage
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Conniff 11</span> <span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Richard, a frequent contributor to Smithsonian, “Drones are Ready for Takeoff”, June, Smithsonian Magazine, http://www.smithsonianmag.com/science-nature/Drones-are-Ready-for-Takeoff.html?c=y&story=fullstory)</span>
The problem<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, ..................</span> **__reliable technology__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

Domestic UAV’s solve pipeline security
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IASG 5 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Institute for the Analysis of Global Security-Washington based think tank, “Pipeline sabotage is terrorist’s weapon of choice,” March 28, http://www.iags.org/n0328051.htm]</span>
Tech<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nology </span>could<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> .......</span> against saboteurs<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

That solves a coming pipeline attack that will crush the economy and risk war with Iran
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Taylor 12 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[David C--journalist, peace activist, Ph.D. candidate University of Lugano, Switzerland, “Oil pipeline platform and refinery false flag terror attacks imminent,” Nov. 24th, [[http://truthernews.wordpress.com/2012/11/24/oil-pipeline-platform-and-refinery-false-flag-terror-attacks-imminent/]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Just as America pushes ............</span> are the most likely<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

That risks extinction
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsch 6</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [Seymour, professor of physics @ the University of California @ San Diego, April 10, pg. http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=viewArticle&code=HIR20060422&articleId=2317]bg</span>
**<span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8pt;">JH: </span>**Iran is likely to respond t................ anybody has prevailed.


Domestic UAVs are essential to ocean protection and quickly identifying harmful algal blooms
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Itri et al., 05 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(A. S. Lomax Itri Corporation, Director NOAA Projects W. Corso Lockheed Martin Space Operations J. F. Etro Itri Corporation, President “Employing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) as an Element of the Integrated Ocean Observing System” http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?tp=&arnumber=1639759)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A. </span>IOOS<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Core Variables ...... the use of large-scale</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Harmful algal blooms are on the rise and will quickly destroy coral reefs</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">BBC News 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Ella Davies, Earth News Reporter, “Toxic algae rapidly kills coral,” 10-8-10,</span>**<span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-size: 10pt;">http://newsvote.bbc.co.uk/mpapps/pagetools/print/news.bbc.co.uk/earth/hi/earth_news/newsid_9070000/9070148.stm?ad=1]</span>**
H<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">armful </span>a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">lgal </span>b<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">looms ...............</span> upon it<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for food and shelter.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">HAB’s cause extinction and global starvation</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Red Orbit 10 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">[“Coral Reef Extinction Could Have Catastrophic Effect,” March 26, 2010, http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/]</span>
Coral reefs are...........<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Conservation of Nature.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

Biodiversity loss causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Young 10 – </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">PhD coastal marine ecology, [Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, February 9th, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]]] </span>

__Different species__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ..........</span>__biodiversity maintains this service.__

Ocean destruction will ensure planetary extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Craig 03 – Associate Professor at Indiana University School of Law</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Robin Kundis, “Taking Steps Toward Marine Wilderness Protection”, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Biodiversity and ecosystem........... is not necessarily unique.</span>



=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]
=T= 
==MILITARY== 
===1NC=== 
====**A. Interpretation- “Transportation infrastructure” is __strictly defined__ as facilities of transport --- this __excludes__ security, law enforcement, and military support**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Musick 10</span>** (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)

<span class="TitleChar">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses...</span><span class="TitleChar" style="line-height: 1.5;">and cleanup operations (such as</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> those </span><span class="TitleChar" style="line-height: 1.5;">conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hurricane </span><span class="TitleChar" style="line-height: 1.5;">Katrina</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2005).</span>
====**“Investment” excludes spending on the military**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Halpin 11</span>** (John, Senior Fellow – Center for American Progress, and Ruy Texeira, Senior Fellow – Century Foundation and Visiting Scholar – Brookings Institution, “The Origins and Evolution of Progressive Economics”, March, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2011/03/pdf/progressive_economics.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">12 Authors’ analysis of: Office of Management and Budget, Historical Tables, Budget of the U.S. Government, Fiscal Year 2011 (Executive Office of the President, 2010); </span>public investment is defined as...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">development and education and training.</span>
==== ==== 
==DAM REMOVAL== 
===1NC=== 
====**A. Interpretation-Increase” means net increase**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 16pt;">Words and Phrases 8</span>**(v. 20a, p. 264-265)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991. </span>__Term “increase__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">,” as used in statute giving the Energy Commission...West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>
====**“Investment” requires capital expenditure**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IER 4</span>** (Institute for Economic Research and Policy Consulting in Ukraine, “How to Improve Public Investment Efficiency in Ukraine?”, February, http://www.osteuropa-institut.de/ext_dateien/how%20to%20improve.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. Definitions and recent trends</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1.1. Definitions</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Throughout the paper </span>public investment is defined as...<span style="font-size: 8pt;">also used in this paper.1</span>
=DA= 
==IMMIGRATION== 
===1NC=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Obama is key to CIR</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fabian 1-25.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Jordan, Political Editor, ABC News, White House, Senators to Begin Push on Immigration Reform , 2013 -- http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/News/white-house-senators-begin-push-immigration-reform/story?id=18315277]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">"</span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The president is the quarterback and he will direct...</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">without people pushing from the</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> outside."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive reform is key to food security</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ACIR ‘7</span>** (December 4, 2007 THE AGRICULTURE COALITION FOR IMMIGRATION REFORM

Dear Member of Congress: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Agriculture Coalition for Immigration Reform (ACIR) is... enforcement in isolation from equally important reforms that would provide for a stable and legal farm labor force. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food insecurity sparks World War 3</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calvin ’98</span>** (William, Theoretical Neurophysiologist – U Washington, Atlantic Monthly, January, Vol 281, No. 1, p. 47-64)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The population-crash scenario is surely the most appalling... it lost the extra warming from the North Atlantic.</span>



==OIL DA== 
===1NC=== 
**Russian econ is growing**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Bush 12** (Jason, “UPDATE 1-Wages power Russian economy, stoke inflation risk”, July 18th, http://www.xe.com/news/2012-07-18%2012:35:00.0/2811973.htm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Data ..... consume</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.'</span>


====**Low oil prices wreck the Russian economy**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**CNBC 12** (“Analysis: Oil-price slide highlights risks to Putin's Russia,” July 2nd, [[http://www.cnbc.com/id/48040295]])</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">MOSCOW (Reuters) - </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Falling ........ strategist</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at Citigroup. ($1 = 32.9862 Russian roubles)</span>

====**Economic collapse triggers and accesses every scenario for conflict**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Oliker and Charlick-Paley 2** (Olga and Tanya, RAND Corporation Project Air Force, “Assessing Russia’s Decline,” 2002, www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR1442/)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The preceding chapters ...............</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> the risk of nuclear war.</span>

===**FISCAL DISCIPLINE**=== 

**A. An economic slowdown is coming but the US will narrowly avoid another recession**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bloomberg News June 5, 20**12**</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> [“US economy’s repeat pattern has a silver lining,” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.tampabay.com/news/business/markets/us-economys-repeat-pattern-has-silver-lining/1233638]]</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">]bg</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON — The </span>U.S. ......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> same 2011 period.</span>

**B. Link--New infrastructure spending will be deficit-financed and fail to stimulate the economy—multiple factors**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**De Rugy and Mitchell**, senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University , 20**11** </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Veroniqu de Rugy and Matthew Mitchell, “WOULD MORE INFRASTRUCTURE SPENDING STIMULATE THE ECONOMY?,” Working Paper, Mercatus Center, George Mason University, September, [[http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf]]]bg</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Four years into the deepest .......</span> consequences in the long term<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**C. Plan kills any chance of economic recovery and pushes the economy to the tipping point**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Hunt**, PhD in Economics from Temple University and Vice President of Hoisington Investment Management Company**, 12**</span>
[Lacy, interviewed by The Gold Report, “Economic Recovery Via Shared Sacrifice, Cutting Government Spending, Deficit and Debts,” May, 17, 2012, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article34706.html%5dbg|http://www.marketoracle.co.uk/Article34706.html]bg]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">TGR: How long will it take ......</span> cannot do that.

**D. Economic collapse kills millions and sparks great power wars**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Duncan**, chief economist Blackhorse Asset Management former IMF consultant and financial sector specialist for the World Bank, **12**</span>
[Richard, The New Depression: The Breakdown of the Paper Money Economy, 2012, ebook]bg

**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The political battle .......</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 60 million people.</span>__**

=**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CP</span>__**= 
==**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">STATES</span>__**== 
===<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>=== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Text: The fifty states and relevant territories, through a performance payment regime public private partnership program, should ___. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">State can build infrastructure while avoiding the link to politics</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Edwards 11 </span>**– Director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute and the editor of [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org|www.downsizinggovernment.org]] [Chris, October 21, 2011, “Infrastructure projects to fix the economy? Don’t bank on it,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html]]]

When the federal government is paying for infrastructure....They’re ready.


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">P3s are already used in multiple states to finance infrastructure development</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown et al 07</span>** – National Council for Public-Private Partnerships [Matthew T. Brown, Timothy P. Cronin, Saurabh Lall, Joseph R. Lataille, and Margaret Sacks, December 2007, “The Capital Beltway And Public-Private Partnerships,” Page 9-10, [[http://www.ncppp.org/councilinstitutes/capstonereport2.pdf]]]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Contracting work to private companies to deliver....</span> governments are now turning to the private sector

==__PRIVATIZATION__== 
===<span style="font-family: Calibri;">1NC</span>=== 
====**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Text: The United States federal government should commission <object of the plan> by establishing a competitive bidding process for <object of the plan></span>**==== 

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Privatized infrastructure would be massively cheaper than public investment- competitiveness.</span>**==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Plumer 4/01</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Brad Plumer, former associate editor at The New Republic, now reporter for Washing Post More states privatizing their infrastructure. Are they making a mistake? Washington Post 04/01/2012 http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/ezra-klein/post/more-states-privatizing-their-infrastructure-are-they-making-a-mistake/2012/03/31/gIQARtAhnS_blog.html)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The other way to privatize infrastructure is to... those financed through traditional </span>public-sector methods<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>

====**<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">And Privatization would have multiple positive effects cost minimization, innovation and incentives</span>**==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Winston 10**,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Clifford Winston, senior fellow in the economic studies program at the Brookings Institution and author of Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System “THE PRIVATE SECTOR CAN IMPROVE INFRASTRUCTURE WITH PRIVATIZATION NOT A BANK” E21: Economic Policies for the 21st Century 09/29/2010 http://www.economics21.org/commentary/private-sector-can-improve-infrastructure-privatization-not-bank)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Privatization of the system would have at least three positive effects...</span>The private sector does.

==Alaska CP== 
**Text: The state government of Alaska, through the Alaska Industrial Development and Export Authority, should substantially increase investment in construction and development of deep-water ports in Alaska. The state government of Alaska should enact a prohibition on oil drilling that extends from the Alaskan coast to the outer limits of the Outer Continental Shelf. The governor of Alaska should issue a written request for assistance to the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers for assistance in the construction and development of deep-water ports in Alaska.**

**First, states have the authority to prohibit offshore drilling – solves the first advantage**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Agence France Presse 8 </span>**(http://afp.google.com/article/ALeqM5j5lZlQytDSpHtFDIvXfVL1hVX10w)
US President George W. Bush on Wednesday urged Congress to lift a <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">decades-old ban on offshore oil drilling to reduce dependence on foreign imports and offset sky-high energy prices</span>.<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Calling the <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">federal ban "outdated and counterproductive</span>,"....and urged the country to move away from its dependence on oil.

**Secondly, the CP solves Arctic leadership**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Alaska House of Representatives 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">("ARCTIC PLANNING & INFRASTRUCTURE</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">INVESTMENT," </span><span style="color: #0000e9; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://housemajority.org/coms/anw/pdfs/27/draft_recommendations_part_02.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A number of state initiatives are underway to look at the potential needs and feasibility of... should take this opportunity to help increase local capacity for the benefit of all</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Alaskans.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Third, states can request assistance from Army Corps of Engineers - they'll say yes following the CP’s increase in port investment**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USACE 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">("US Army Corps of Engineers," </span><span style="color: #0000e9; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.usace.army.mil/Missions/EmergencyOperations/Drought.aspx]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. </span>Army Corps <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of Engineers</span> services 41 states<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with ports and waterways... life jacket when recreating in or near the water. Emergency Water Assistance Due to Drought</span>

==**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">TERROCRAT PIC</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Text: The terrocrats should (insert plan text here)</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">The term "government" is an abstraction. The government is a group of people that oppresses others.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mann 98</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">(Frederick, "The Nature of Government", Version 2, Originally Published in Terra Libra, 1994, </span><span class="cite"><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hiddenmysteries.org/freebooks/neuro/govt.html]]</span></span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">The human brain is an abstracting device</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">.... </span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 11pt;">They seem so brainwashed with the notion that "government does things," that their brains automatically shut out anything to the contrary. </span>__

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">B.This abstraction is used to coerce people. This coercion leads to death, destruction, and unending violence.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Mann 95</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Frederick, "Why You Must Recognise and Understand Coercion", [[http://www.mind-trek.com/reports/misc/coercion.htm]])</span>**

__In its strongest form, coercion involves killing...____<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman';"> lie to get your mind. </span>__

**<span style="font-size: 12pt; line-height: 1.5;">C. Counter Plan solves-using the term terrocrat shows the underside of violence that the abstraction government covers.</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mann 98</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">(Frederick, "The Nature of Government", Version 2, Originally Published in Terra Libra, 1994, <span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.hiddenmysteries.org/freebooks/neuro/govt.html]]</span>)</span>
__<span style="font-family: Arial; line-height: 1.5;">The words we use and the way we use them produce consequences...</span>____<span style="font-family: Arial; line-height: 1.5;">libertarian and patriot communicators were to use these terms over the airwaves and in print</span>__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">! </span>

==PACE CP== 
===1NC=== 
**Text: The Federal Housing Authority should provide loan guarantees for solar Property Assessed Clean Energy assessments levied on new or refinanced mortgages in the United States.**

**Property Assessed Clean Energy works and the tech is ready**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hidari 10</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jack, writer for the Harvard Business Review, Chairman of PrimaryInsight.com, National steering committee, PACENow.org “A Market Solution for Achieving “Green”, in The HBR List: Breakthrough Ideas for 2010,” HARV. BUS. REV. 41, 50-51 (Jan./Feb. 2010). </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Problem It's easy to get excited about the promise of </span>clean tech<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">nology....</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> sale </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">must immediately bring the tax payments up to date</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The CP solves warming**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Saha 11/13</span>**, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Devashree, senior policy analyst and associate fellow at the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program,” “Enact Legislation Supporting Residential Property Assessed Clean Energy Financing,” November 13th, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/Research/Files/Papers/2012/11/13%20federalism/13%20housing%20energy%20efficiency.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;">Along these lines, </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">a first priorityfor unleashing clean economy growth</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> in the nation </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 11pt;">must be to...Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and so produce significant climate benefits</span>

=**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">K </span>__**= 
==**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">RODRIGUEZ</span>__**== 
===**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">1NC</span>__**=== 
**The affirmative’s framing of their impacts ultimately serves to banalize the society around them. Their emphasis on spectacles of violence enables them to accept the rules of current power structures as part of a ritualized acquiescence to white supremacy. This makes everyday forms of violence unrecognizable**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Martinot & Sexton 2003</span>** [Steve & Jared, Steve is a lecturer at San Francisco State University in the Center for Interdisciplinary Programs Jared is Associate Professor African American Studies School of Humanities Associate Professor, Film & Media Studies School of Humanities at UC Irvine Ph.D., University of California, Berkeley, Comparative Ethnic Studies, “The Avant-Garde of White Supremacy, Social Identities, Volume 9, Number 2, 2003 p.171-172]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Most theories of white supremacy ..........</span>__<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> but its very practices</span>____<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.</span>__


**US hegemony is just the racial violence of America gone global –aff claims to benevolence are symptoms of white privilege**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rodriguez ‘07</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dylan, PhD in Ethnic Studies Program of the University of California Berkeley and Associate Proffessor of Ethnic Studies at University of California Riverside, “American Globality And the US Prison regime: State Violence And White Supremacy from Abu Ghraib to Stockton to bagong diwa”, Ateneo de Manila University, 2007, Kritika Kultura 9 (2007): 022-048]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In fact, </span>the notion ......<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> specific institutional site.</span>
==== ==== 
====**<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">Our alternative is the pedagogical position of the call for the end of the United States. Only this epistemological starting point can create an effective praxis that will betray the constant management of the effects of genocide in favor of a politics to abolish it.</span>**==== 
**__Rodríguez 2010__** [Dylan, “The Disorientation of the Teaching Act: Abolition as Pedagogical Position” Radical Teacher number 88<span class="publication-date"> August 1, 2010 </span>
<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">Perhaps, then, </span>__<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif;">there ........</span>____<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif;"> pedagogical audacity</span>__<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

==**<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">CAP</span>**== 
===**<span style="font-family: ACaslonPro-Regular,serif; font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>**=== 

**We have an ethical obligation to reject global capitalism because of the suffering it imposes upon millions across the globe and because of the way it circumscribes the very field of political possibilities.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zizek and Daly 4</span>** (Slavoj, Senior Researcher at the Institute for Social Studies in Ljubljana, and Glyn, Senior Lecturer in Politics in the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences at University College, Northampton, 2004, Conversations With Zizek, p. 14-16)
<span style="font-family: Calibri; line-height: 1.5;">**For Zizek it is imperative that we....**</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> **Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.**</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**Our alternative is withdrawal from capitalism. We reject the aff and refuse to map a political struggle. This is the only way to develop real alternatives to capitalism. Capitalism’s very existence is reliant upon people’s belief and investment in it – only complete rejection allows a reconceptualization of our relationship with capital.**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnston 4</span>** (Adrian, interdisciplinary research fellow in psychoanalysis at Emory, The Cynic’s Fetish: Slavoj Zizek and the Dynamics of Belief, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society)
<span class="underline">Perhaps the absence of a detailed political roadmap....a deceptively comforting fiction</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (‘‘Capitalist commodity fetishism or the truth? I choose fetishism’’).</span>