= = 
[[toc|flat]]
=Buy American= 
==1NC== 
===Unique Link - Buy America procurement provisions will be tacked onto the plan – kills US-Canada Relations=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Rayner 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- Martin is an independent consultant with more than 27 years of experience working in customs brokerage and international trade logistics -- held executive-level positions with a number of leading trade service providers across Canada, International Trade Compliance Strategies, 5-8, http://tradecompliance.ghy.com/2012/05/buy-america-exceptionalism/</span>
With an election looming at the end of the year, it seems highly improbable
AND
arguments in their favour are compelling, practically valid, and overwhelmingly popular.
for Congress to take it out.
===And, US Canadian relations key to environment and stopping air pollution=== 
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">US department of State, 8, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[“Background Note: Canada”, May, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.state.gov/r/pa/ei/bgn/2089.htm]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> AL]</span>
The U.S. and Canada also work closely to resolve trans-boundary
AND
in combating cross-border air pollution in the form of particulate matter.
===Extinction=== 
<span class="Heading4Char">Salvador 7.</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Lourdes Salvador, Writer and Social Advocate for American Chronicle. "Human Extinction," 4/14/07. Online. [TR])</span>
The most common pattern of macroevolutionary trends is extinction. In short "when a
AND
us that natural selection obviously doesn't always work" (Relethford, 2005).
=Artic War Russian Relations Turn= 
==1NC== 

====Cooperation on the brink – multilateral emphasis key to avoid conflict – plan kills it====
**Davis et al 11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Darrin D. Davis Lieutenant, United States Navy B.A., University of New Mexico, 2006, Approved by: Anne L. Clunan Thesis Co-Advisor Mikhail Tsypkin Thesis Co-Advisor Daniel Moran, PhD Chair, Department of National Security Affairs, "ARCTIC SOVEREIGNTY DISPUTES: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS THEORY IN THE HIGH NORTH," December 2011, http://www.hsdl.org/?view%26did=699595~~] </span>
As discussed in Chapter II, states are generally setting cooperation as a policy priority
AND
the far East. The future of the Arctic is here, now.

====US has posture of coop now – plan reverses this====
**Knecht 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Sebastian, University of Bath and Humboldt-Universität Berlin writing his master thesis on post-Cold War US-Russian relations in the Arctic, "US-Russian Arctic Strategies: Spatializing Governance and Governing Space," 2 August 2012, http://www.thearcticinstitute.org/2012/08/us-russian-arctic-strategies.html~~]</span>
The narrative of an open Arctic space also guides controversial aspects of national defence
AND
~’in conjunction with other states when possible, and independently if necessary~’.

====Arctic cooperation is key to US-Russia relations====
**Antrim 12 **
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Caitlyn, Adjunct Faculty at American University Washington College of Law, Executive Director at Rule of Law Committee for the Oceans, "Relocating the Reset: U.S.-Russian Partnership in the Arctic," 29 February 2012, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11627/relocating-the-reset-u-s-russian-partnership-in-the-arctic~~]</span>
Building a better, more effective relationship with Russia is too important to allow ties
AND
shipping, regional development and environmental protection have led to increased regional cooperation.

====US-Russian relations solve a laundry list of impacts====
**Pifer 12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Steven, director of the Brookings Arms Control Initiative and a senior fellow in the Center on the United States and Europe, former ambassador to Ukraine, " The Future Course of the U.S.-Russia Relationship," 21 March 2012, http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2012/03/21-arms-control-pifer~~]</span>
Looking forward, a positive relationship with Russia can advance U.S. interests
AND
with Moscow to facilitate a successful Russian entry into the World Trade Organization.





.