<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[toc]]
</span>















=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">*Important*</span>= 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">For References to what else we might read see [[@debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Marcus Azimi & Edward Xiao|Johns Creek AX]] or [[@debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Johns Creek (GA) - Layla Ghazi & Chelsea Thorpe|Johns Creek GT]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Marcus - I don't really add 2AC cites onto the wiki because i feel that it clutters the page too much. As such, if you need the 2AC cites please feel free to email to receive those cites.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Aff: mazimi43@gmail.com</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Neg: chelseathorpe97@gmail.com</span>
=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Affirmative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nextgen (Most Recent)</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1 is No Oil</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Oil prices will double within the next decade – our evidence is future predictive</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Macalister 12** [Terry Macalister – Editor at the Guardian and Energy Analyst, “Oil prices could double by 2022, IMF warned”, May 13, 2012,[[http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/may/13/oil-price-doubling-decade-imf]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The International Monetary Fund … "stopped its declining trend".</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Perception is key- every change in the US market is watched</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Roberts 4** [Paul Roberts has written about resource economics and politics for numerous publications, including the Los Angeles Times, the Washington Post, and Rolling Stone, and lectures frequently on business and environmental issues. – “The End of Oil: On the Edge of a Perilous New World”, pg. 95, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Within the oil world, no to …“ its mind whether to be bearish or bullish.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The perception of a change in demand will change the price</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kosakowski 11** [Paul has a degree in Physics from Southern Connecticut State University, he began investing in 1998 and analyzes the markets from a perspective that includes both Cycles and Elliot Wave analysis combined with traditional technical indicators, such as MACD and Stochastics. “What Determines Oil Prices”, June 6th, 2011, [[http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH|http://www.investopedia.com/articles/economics/08/determining-oil-prices.asp#axzz1zuSutPpH]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Not quite. The price of … are sold (possibly sold short as well).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A decrease in US oil dependence collapses global oil prices</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Georgia 1** [Paul Georgia - Environmental Policy Analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute, “Energy Independence: It Doesn’t Work,”[[http://www.cei.org/gencon/019,02192.cfm]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Corporate Average Fuel... foist upon the American people.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran is getting closer to developing a nuclear weapon – a new round of sanctions are being applied to halt their progress</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**CNN 12** [“Report: Iran builds, tests first nuclear fuel rod”, January 2nd, 2012, [[http://www.cnn.com/2012/01/01/world/meast/iran-nuclear-rod/index.html]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran built its first … nuclear weapons program.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But sanctions won’t be effective as long as oil revenue cushions the effect for Iran – a fall in oil prices causes Iranian economic collapses and forces them to give up the bomb</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Sheinin 12** [Yacov Sheinin - President of Economic Models Ltd, “Low oil prices rather than an embargo will hurt Iran most,” 1/24/12, Globes,[[http://www.globes.co.il/serveen/globes/docview.asp?did=1000718550&fid=4488,]] Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The EU, which represents …stop developing the Bomb.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iranian proliferation leads to pre-emptive nuclear strikes between Iran and Israel, causes Israeli disclosure, and broader Middle East proliferation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman et al 11** [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Given Israel's status …pressure, or all three.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Israel-Iran war ignites World War III – threatens all of humankind</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Coughlin 10** [Telegraph's Executive Foreign Director and a world-renowned expert on the Middle East and Islamic terrorism (Con, If Iran continues to defy the West, Barack Obama will be forced to launch military action, [[http://blogs.telegraph.co.uk/]]news/concoughlin/100021911/if- iran-continues-to-defy-the- west-barack-obama- will-be- forced-to-launch-military- action/]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">But, despite all ... into the 22nd.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their prolif good authors are wrong about the Middle East – proliferation there uniquely risks war for multiple reasons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Edelman et al 11** [Eric S. Edelman is a Distinguished Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments; he was U.S. Undersecretary of Defense for Policy in 2005-9. Andrew F. Krepinevich is President of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. Evan Braden Montgomery is a Research Fellow at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments. “The Dangers of a Nuclear Iran”, Foreign Affairs; Jan/Feb2011, Vol. 90 Issue 1, p66-81, 16p, Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Were Saudi Arabia to acquire… with unpredictable consequences</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-NextGen Aff-Contention 2 is Warming]]Contention 2 is Warming</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Warming is real and human induced – emissions reductions are key to avoid dangerous climate disruptions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Somerville 11**[Professor of Oceanography at UCSD Richard Somerville, Distinguished Professor Emeritus and Research Professor at Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego, Coordinating Lead Author in Working Group I for the 2007 Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 3-8-2011, “CLIMATE SCIENCE AND EPA'S GREENHOUSE GAS REGULATIONS,” CQ Congressional Testimony, Lexis]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In early 2007, at the … well within this century.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND – It’s the most likely scenario for extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deibel 7** [Terry L. Professor of IR at National War College, 2007 “Foreign Affairs Strategy: Logic for American Statecraft”, Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, there is …of life on this planet.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No offense – increase in CO2 will overall lead to decrease in crop production and cause global starvation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Strom 7** [Robert Strom, Professor Emeritus of planetary sciences in the Department of Planetary Sciences at the University of Arizona, 2007 (studied climate change for 15 years, the former Director of the Space Imagery Center, a NASA Regional Planetary Image Facility, “Hot House”, SpringerLink, p. 211-216]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agriculture is critical … their ramifications for civilization.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Plan solves - prevents at least 4.8 million tons of CO2 emissions every minute.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**TIACA 10** (The International Air Cargo Association, non-profit trade association for the air cargo industry, It is a worldwide organization that serves a membership which includes all major segments of the air cargo and logistics industry, “The multiple benefits of modernization”, 2010,[[http://www.tiaca.org/images/tiaca/PDF/IndustryAffairs/Air%20Traffic%20Management%20-%20Pages%20from%20Industry%20Affairs%20Positions-10.pdf]], //CJD)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Current air traffic …and reflectharmonized standards.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Airline emissions are comparatively the largest contributor to climate change</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hodgkinson 7** (David Hodgkinson et al, June 2007, Associate Professor in the Law School at UWA; Special Counsel with Clayton Utz, a national Australian law firm; and a principal of The Hodgkinson Group, a consulting firm with advisors located around the world. David is the co-author of the book Global Climate Change: Australian Law and Policy (2008) and the general editor of Australian Climate Change Law and Policy (2009). As executive director of EcoCarbon, a non-profit organisation, he manages an industry partnership which is building capacity in mechanisms designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. He also leads an international project team working on a draft convention for persons displaced by climate change, “STRATEGIES FOR AIRLINES ON AIRCRAFT EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE: SUSTAINABLE, LONG - TERM SOLUTIONS”,[[http://www.hodgkinsongroup.com/documents/Hodgkinson_airline_emissions.bak.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A number of organisations … for all sectors by 2050.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Air-traffic modernization is modeled globally – US led collaboration tackles the environmental issues with aviation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**JPDO 10** [Joint Planning and Development Office, “Next Generation Air Transportation System International Strategy”, January 7th, 2010,[[http://www.jpdo.gov/library/InformationPapers/JPDO_International%20Strategy.pdf]], Chetan] *paraphrased for abelism</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NextGen will deliver … models, and others.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No alt causes – the plan solves other transportation emissions and air pollution</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**NEXA 11**(NEXA Advisors, April, NEXA Capital Partners provides corporate and strategic financial advisory services, and capital investment, to the aerospace, transportation, logistics and homeland security sectors, “NextGen Equipage Fund Job Creation, Economic Benefits, and Contribution to Federal Revenues”, [[http://www.nextgenfund.com/files/downloads/NEF_Economic_Study.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In 2008 GAO … and greenhouse gasses.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Air pollution causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Driesen 3** (David, Associate Professor – Syracuse Univeristy Law, 10 Buff Envt'l L.J. 25, Fall/Spring, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Air pollution can make life … both of these concerns. 5</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-NextGen Aff-Plan Texts]]Plan Texts</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should fully fund the Federal Aviation Agency’s Next Generation program.</span>**


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-NextGen Aff-Contention 3 is Inherency]]Contention 3 is Inherency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The FAA authorization bill’s failure to resolve air-traffic-control issues non-uniques your disads but continues to freeze NextGen projects</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Poole 12** [Robert Poole – Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow and Director of Transportation Policy, “Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90”, February 24th, 2012, [[http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">After 23 extensions … deficit-reduction measure.)</span>
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[#Affirmative-NextGen Aff-Contention 4 is Solvency]]Contention 4 is Solvency</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First, the NextGen protocols work – a shift away from outdated airline control and fuel systems saves 1.4 billion gallons of airline fuel in the transition</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gilligan 12** (Margaret, Associate Administrator for Avian Safety, Federal Aviation Administration, “AVS Work Plan for NextGen 2012”[[http://www.faa.gov/nextgen/media/avs_nextgen_workplan_2012.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our latest estimates ... conditions warrant.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">When fully operational - new air traffic control would save 3 billion gallons a year</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Department of the Treasury 12** (“A New Economic Analysis of Infrastructure Investment,” 3/23, [[http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)/mat|http://www.treasury.gov/resource-center/economic-policy/Documents/20120323InfrastructureReport.pdf)//mat]] NOTE: 1 barrel is 42 gallon 3000000000/42=71428571)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Investing in transportation …, over the past decade</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That’s 400,000 barrels per day</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Murray 11** (Ian, “Resist New Burdens on the Transportation Sector,” Competitive Enterprise Institute, 1/19,[[http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)/mat|http://cei.org/sites/default/files/Iain%20Murray%20-%20Resist%20New%20Burdens%20on%20the%20Transportation%20Sector_0.pdf)//mat]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resist New Burdens on …offers a useful model.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The USFG should do the plan – only a strong federal signal will get the system in place and operational.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**ALPA 12** [Air Line Pilots Association International, June 2012 White Paper, Leveling the Playing Field for U.S. Airlines and Their Employees,[[http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top|http://www.alpa.org/publications/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012/ALPA_White_Paper_Leveling_the_Playing_Field_June_2012.html#top]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Invest in NextGen to … establishing standards and requiring minimum levels of equipage.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federal investment spurs industry adaption and overcomes all current stalemates</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Salam 12** [Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aviation system … manner if at all.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Building the infrastructure will incentivize users to pay for the equipage – overcomes all private investment barriers</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Salam 12**[Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation [Sakib bin Salam, NextGen: Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership, April 2012, ENO Center for Transportation]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Most US operators … the larger industry.37</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crestian Round 2</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New Advantage (Radio Astronomy)</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Same as above but replaced the Warming advantage with the following</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention Two is Radio Astronomy:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">High risk of an asteroid strike - new research and history prove strikes happen often and a planet killer could come at any time</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Easterbrook 8** (Gregg, fellow at Brookings, June, the Atlantic Magazine, “The Sky is Falling”, [[http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2008/06/the-sky-is-falling/6807/2/]], 12-10-11, SRF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Breakthrough ideas have a way of seeming obvious in retro­spect, and about</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">it’s like the entire human race is riding on the plane.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Status quo efforts to monitor near-Earth objects are insufficient—dangerous objects are still undiscovered</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**NRC 2010** (National Research Council Committee to Review Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies, “Defending Planet Earth: Near-Earth Object Surveys and Hazard Mitigation Strategies,” [[http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12842]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ground-based telescopes have difficulty observing NEOs coming toward Earth from near the Sun’s</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">objects newly injected into the NEO population as possible, especially imminent impactors.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Radio Astronomy – the way scientists observe deep space and detect asteroids - currently shares bandwidth frequency with aviation radar – corrupts data</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Fisher et al 6** (Brian D. Jeffs, Weizhen Lazarte, Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Brigham Young University, and J. Richard Fisher, National Radio Astronomy Observatory “Bayesian Detection of Radar Interference in Radio Astronomy” [[http://www.et.byu.edu/~bjeffs/publications/Jeffs_RS_06.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">¶ L-Band observations at the Green Bank Telescope (GBT) and other</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">away can corrupt sensitive observations [1], [2], [3].</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan solves – NextGen makes bandwidth use more efficient and shifts to satellite-based navigation – prevents interference</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Neville et al 8</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> (Dan Macchiarella, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Aeronautical Science and Kelly, Ph.D., is a visiting Associate Professor of Human Factors and Systems, Both are writing for Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University “User Centered SWIM (System Wide Information Management) Structure for the Future” National Airspace System (NAS) Transformations[[http://www.avmgt.com/AMA/AMA_Publications/Entries/2008/10/3_System_Wide_Information_Management_Human_Factor_Issues_files/User%20Centered%20SWIM%20for%20the%20Future-3OCT08.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Individual users, within an optimized SWIM environment, will have differing bandwidth needs</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">user performance areas (e.g., decision making and satisfaction).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Detection guarantees deflection - Incentives mean U.S. will invest all resources available</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Barrett, 6**[Scott, Professor and Director of International Policy, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University and Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Center for the Study of Globalization, Yale University, “ SYMPOSIUM: CATASTROPHE: The Problem of Averting Global Catastrophe,” Winter, 2006 6 Chi. J. Int'l L. 527]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Protection of the Earth from asteroids is a global public good. No country could</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">period orbits cannot be observed as easily, and these are thus particularly dangerous</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NEO strike causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">McGuire 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> (Bill, Professor of Geohazards at University College London and is one of Britain's leading volcanologists, A Guide to the End of the World, p. 159-168)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Tunguska events pale into insignificance when compared to what happened off the coast of</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">comet heading in our direction.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their “low probability” logic is irrelevant and prevents action to stop asteroids</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Brownfield ‘4** (Roger – presented at the Planetary Defense Conference: Protecting Earth from Asteroids, Orange County, California, Feb. 23-26, 2004 -- “A Million Miles a Day…” – Brownsfield is part of the Gaiashiled project – available at: http://www.aiaa.org/content.cfm?pageid=406&gTable=Paper&gID=17092)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Once upon a time there was a Big Bang... Cause/Effect - Cause</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">” in favor of rational random inevitable expectation... and its attendant fear.</span>



==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Evacuation</span>== 

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 1: Duck</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The national highway system was created as a mechanism for evacuation from nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Squires 9** Richard, The Interstate Sprawl System, [[http://www.opednews.com/articles/The-Interstate-Sprawl-Syst-by-Richard-Squires-090112-110.html]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The coup de grace came from the ... as joyful as a bureaucratic picnic</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear defense uses the idea of all hazards planning to create an apparent affinity between natural disasters and nuclear exchange</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Clarke 99** Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 73-4</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The idea of "solving problems" i... hurricanes, earthquakes, and so forth.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The apparent affinity between nuclear war and natural disasters facilitates evacuation planning, this planning is a way to pretend that we can control the uncontrollable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Clarke 99** Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 98-100</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Once an affinity is created...social conflict, the topic of the next chapter.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This normalizes nuclear war and allows for the creation of artificially constructed “nuclear expertise”</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Clarke 99** Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 97-8</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Folding natural disasters and nuclear attack into the same category ...reliable, that it can be drawn upon</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These evacuation plans legitimize nuclear war and create a system of rationality that justifies new wars, torture and terror to be unleashed on the enemy de jour</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Dudely 7** Michael, Research Associate with the Institute of Urban Studies at the University of Winnipeg, Theory & Event, 10:2, Revisiting Cold War Ideology in the Secure City: Towards a Political Economy of Urbicide</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">20. In his 1999 book, Mission Improbable: ... foray beyond received conventional wisdom is viewed as unthinkable.¶</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Thus: Vote aff to increase our intellectual investment in transportation infrastructure by recognizing that nuclear evacuation plans legitimize unnecessary risks</span>**

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Contention 2: Cover</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">These plans to use freeways to evacuate are fantasy documents, they aren’t intended to be used but serve a symbolic and rhetorical purpose in order to control the frame of debate, convincing the public that the risks our leaders take in our name are acceptable, while at the same time determining who can and who can’t speak on the issue of nuclear weapons. This system results in threat construction and risks annihilation. Voting Aff ruptures current politics and enables new ways of talking about the nuclear complex</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Clarke 99** Lee, Prof of Sociology @ Rutgers , Mission Improbable: Using Fantasy Documents To Tame Disaster, pg. 167-171</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A short while ago I claimed that ... frankly that they can not control the uncontrollable</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear weapons play a role in our everyday lives, highways are just the most obvious marker, the entirety of the national infrastructure is built around the nuclear-industrial complex, causing massive deaths world-wide</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Masco 6** Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 24-7</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The strange new intimacy of life in the nuclear age is ...has engendered new tactile experiences of everyday life in the United States, and with them, new psychosocial realities.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The role of the ballot should be to vote for the team that best challenges nuclear weapons in our everyday lives.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Now is the key time to challenge the nuclear complex that we encounter every day without realizing it. Your ballot re-writes the history of the nuclear age</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Masco 6** Joesph, Prof of Anthropology, U of Chicago, The Nuclear Borderlands, pg 3-5</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The “unthinkability” of the nuclear age has right ...and an anthropology of American power in the twenty-first century.</span>

=<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Negative</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Topicality</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-Military</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure includes a lot of things, but not the military</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Musick 10** (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Although different definitions of ... Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-TI (Port Security)</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Interpretation: transportation infrastructure excludes port security</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">AJA, ’11</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> [“American Jobs Act”, 9/12/11, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/omb/legislative/reports/american-jobs-act.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">(9) INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT-</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(A) IN GENERAL- The term `eligible infrastructure project' means ... than 5 of the voting members of the Board of Directors.</span>



===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-TI (Disabilities)</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure Investment includes only the support for large infrastructure projects – repairs, maintenance, and minor projects aren’t topical</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Chang, et. al. 10</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Diana Chang, Sheryl Pankhurst, Matthew Schneer, and Daniel Schreiner, Monitoring and State Improvement Planning Division Recovery Act Facilitators “MSIP ARRA Monitoring and Technical Assistance” leadershipmega-conf-reg.tadnet.org/.../original_S3-105-ARRA_Technical-RAF.ppt)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Financial support for a physical asset or structure needed... “minor remodeling” as defined in 34 CFR §77.1(c).’ </span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">T-Communications (Next Gen)</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure includes roads, transit, rail, airports, waterways, ports, and buses – excludes telecommunications, data streams, and satellites</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**IEDC 12** (International Economic Development Council, “Economic Development Reference Guide”, http://www.iedconline.org/?p=Guide_Infrastructure)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Infrastructure Infrastructure encompasses existing transportation, ... networks Local area networks (LAN)</span>

==**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 1.4em; line-height: 1.5;">Disads</span>**== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">October Surprise DA</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Obama is doing fine in the polls now – but a sharp decrease in popularity causes him to launch an October Surprise on Iran to distract from the economy and hold onto his presidency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Siegel 8-13** [Bill Siegel – Contributing Editor of Family Security Matters, the author of The Control Factor - Our Struggle to See the True Threat published by Hamilton Books. “Can You Guess the October Surprise?” August 13th, 2012,[[http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/detail/can-you-guess-the-october-surprise]], Chetan]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">One should never … sold to America.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan is political suicide – perception of wasteful spending and lack of public support</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Orski ‘12** Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – [[http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finding the resources … and far between.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US attack on Iran spurs terrorism, NPT collapse, global prolif and war </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Hirsch 6** [Jorge Hirsch is a professor of Physics at the University of California at San Diego. He is a Fellow of the American Physical Society and an organizer of a recent petition, circulated among leading physicists, opposing the new nuclear weapons policies adopted by the US in the past 5 years. He is a frequent commentator on Iran and nuclear weapons “Nuking Iran,” Znet, 4/10,[[http://www.zmag.org/content/showarticle.cfm?ItemID=10071]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Iran is likely to … anybody has prevailed.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Immigration Reform DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congress will pass immigration reform but Obama’s political capital is key</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Foley and Stein 1-2**- staff writer at huffington post, (Elise and Sam, “Obama's Immigration Reform Push To Begin This Month”, 1-2-13, Huffington Post,[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/02/obama-immigration-reform_n_2398507.html]], // CJD)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON -- Despite a bruising fiscal cliff battle ... both parties working together and singing 'Kumbaya,'" Sharry said.</span>

(Uniqueness and Link cards change frequently)

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">New waves of legal immigrants creates jobs and stimulates demand – prevents economic collapse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Williams 7** (Herbert A. Igbanugo, Founding Shareholder – Igbanugo Partners Int'l Law Firm, PLLC, and Dyan Williams, Attorney – Igbanugo Partners Int'l Law Firm, PLLC and Specialist – U.S. Immigration & Nationality Law, “Comprehensive Immigration Reform-- Inevitable Solution or Unlikely Possibility?”, Nexus: A Journal of Opinion, 13 Nexus J. Op. 59, Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">II. The Role of Immigrants in the U.S. Economy¶Immigration is critical to the ... out on this critical source¶of skilled labor.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Global economic crisis creates several motives for global war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Royal 10** [Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,? in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline ... should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Federalism DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The counterplan is key to spur federalism - </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Horowitz 3/21/12** (Daniel, “A Real Solution to the Gridlock Over the Highway Bill” The Red State Online”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Instead of proposing yet another ...spending from being used as the conduit for the statist agenda.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Transportation is the critical issue in spurring federalism</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">McDowell and Edner 2</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> (Bruce, Intergovernmental Management Associates, Sheldon Edner, George Mason University, “Introduction: Federalism and Surface Transportation” Winter 2002)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">During the past two decades, American federalism ...a bellwether in characterizing the status of federal-state relationship.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">The impact is escalating warfare</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">**Calabresi 95** – Assistant Professor, Northwestern University School of Law (Steven G., December, “Reflections on United States v. Lopez: ‘A GOVERNMENT OF LIMITED AND ENUMERATED POWERS’: IN DEFENSE OF UNITED STATES v. LOPEZ,” Lexis)</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Small state federalism is a big part of what ... absorb more completely the attention of the U.S. Supreme Court.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Oil DA</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Unique internal link – status quo oil prices promote Russia economic growth. Lower prices guarantee economic collapse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Kalmykova 10-16** (Svetlana, The Voice of Russia, “Three scenarios for the Russian Economy,” 2012, http://indrus.in/articles/2012/10/16/three_scenarios_for_the_russian_economy_18399.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev discussed ...people’s incomes and cause social tension.</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**That causes Saudi Arabia to flood the oil market and collapse prices**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**MORSE AND RICHARDS 2002** (Edward L. Morse is Executive Adviser at Hess Energy Trading Company and was Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for International Energy Policy in 1979-81. James Richard is a portfolio manager at Firebird Management, an investment fund active in eastern Europe, Russia, and Central Asia, Foreign Affairs, March/April)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A simple fact explains this conclusion: ...mainly to non-OPEC countries.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That crushes the Russian economy and undermines support for the regime</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**KRAMER 12** – New York Times writer and editor (ANDREW E. “Higher Oil Prices to Pay for Campaign Promises” New York Times March 16, 2012 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/17/business/global/vladimir-putins-big-promises-need-fueling-by-high-oil-prices.html?_r=2?pagewanted=print Putin Needs ajones)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">MOSCOW — In American presidential politics,...though, was never part of Mr. Putin’s stump speech.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**FILGER 2009** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In Russia historically, economic health ...Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ozone DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">NextGen relies on GPS for communications and ATC</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AIN 12** [AINOnline, “Rise of GPS Interference Raises Concerns for NextGen, 4/2/12, [[http://www.ainonline.com/aviation-news/aviation-international-news/2012-04-02/rise-gps-interference-raises-concerns-nextgen]],] EX</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Today, most of us would ...on GPS will grow exponentially.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">GPS will be launched through rockets</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Freeman 10** [Dave, Expert and Writer on techcrunch, “Boeing preparing to next-gen GPS satellites”, 5/18/10, http://techcrunch.com/2010/05/18/boeing-preparing-to-launch-next-gen-gps-satellites/]EX</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The satellite is scheduled to be...rocket this coming Thursday.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Increased rocket launches crush the ozone – the status quo is sustainable</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Ross et. al. 9** (Martin – environmental Systems Directorate @ Aerospace, Ph.D. @ UCLA in Earth and planetary sciences, Darin Toohey, Manfred Peinemann and Patrick Ross, January, http://www.makealeap.org/node/41204) JPG</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The global market for rocket launches ... rockets could become significant.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Ozone depletion causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Festive Earth Society, 8**(February 26, “The Ozone Layer,” http://festiveearth.com/content/view/96/54/index.html, JM)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The ozone layer is essential ...as we know it, to exist.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Food Prices DA</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russian economy is strong now but agriculture is critical to keep it diverse—that’s key to the global economy</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Delaney 11** (January 26, 2011, Martin, “Russia: The Wild East,” Investment And Pensions Europe)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">However, many would argue they are wrong. "... that the great fortunes of the future are being made.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">High grain prices in particular is necessary to sustain this growth</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**AP Newshire 08** (September 9, 2008, www.newsday.com/business/investing/wire/sns-ap-russian-breadbasket,0,5647019.story)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">An American-made combine harvests barley ...s to harvest at least five tons of wheat out of the same plot, he said.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Russian economic collapse causes global nuclear wars</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Filger 2009** (Sheldon, author and blogger for the Huffington Post, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction” http://www.globaleconomiccrisis.com/blog/archives/356)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In Russia historically, economic health and political stability ... It may be that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Earth DA</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dredging disburses pollution to the bottom of the ocean incrementally destroying the environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Melnick 08**– graduate of Boston University Law School, trial attorney and supervisor for the Legal Aid Society (Robert S., “DREDGING: MAKING WAVES FOR COMMERCE OR ENVIRONMENTAL DESTRUCTION” 19 Vill. Envtl. L.J. 145, lexis)CB</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As cities compete for federal funding for ... bottom living communities</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Loss of ecosystems and species risks planetary extinction – each one could be the last</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**DINER 94** Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> [David N., Military Law Review//, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, LN]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man has. ..., [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It’s anthropogenic and risks extinction- turns the aff</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Deibel 07** [Terry L. Deibel - professor of IR at National War College, Foreign Affairs Strategy, “Conclusion: American Foreign Affairs Strategy Today Anthropogenic – caused by CO2”]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Finally, there is one major existential... existence of lifeon this planet</span>

==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Counterplans</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gas Tax CP</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should increase the federal gas tax.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Studies prove HSR is not a cost effective means of reducing warming or oil dependency – an increased fuel tax would be more effective</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Peterman, Frittelli, and Mallett (your Author) ‘09** –Analyst in Transportation Policy, Specialists in Transportation Policy, from the Congressional Research Service- prepares information for members and committees of Congress (“High Speed Rail (HSR) in the United States” CRS Report for Congress, December 8 2009, p. 16-17, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R40973.pdf) // SP</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Completed as part of a wide-ranging review ... than electricity from nuclear, hydro-electric, or other renewable sources.52</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Higher gas taxes increase car fuel efficiency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Buehler et al. 9**, (Ralph, Assistant Professor in Urban Affairs & Planning at Virginia Tech, researches contrasting transport and land-use policies, transport systems, and travel behavior, and John Pucher, Professor, Urban Planning and Policy Development Program, “Making Transportation Sustainable: Insights from Germany”, Metropolitan Policy Program, April, http://dspace.cigilibrary.org/jspui/bitstream/123456789/26736/1/Making%20Transportation%20Sustainable%20-%20Insights%20from%20Germany.pdf?1</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vehicle technology policy: Both the United States and Germany are world...approved a new fuel-economy target of 35 mpg by the year 2020.</span>


===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States CP</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The 50 state governments, Washington D.C., and all relevant United States territories should (plan action).</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even if the federal government could do the plan, the states should do it and will do it better</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Gramlich 94** (Edward M. Gramlich, Professor of Economics at the University of Michigan, “Infrastructure Investment: A Review Essay”, Journal of Economic Literature, Vol. 32, No. 3 (Sep., 1994), pp. 1176-1196, [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/2728606]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The above comments ... hard to say no.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Below is the one we ran against Cypress Bay US.)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories should substantially increase their investment in Universal Design transportation infrastructure in the United States. The fifty states and all relevant territories should enforce compliance to the mandates of the American Disabilities Act and issue a public statement regarding their intent.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">States solve disability assistance better than the USFG – and – our counterplan is relevant, predictable, and educational</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Stephen Percy, Ph.D, Political Science Professor at the University of Milwaukee, 2001,** “Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation”, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Disab ility+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Questions about policy coordination invariably raise issues about ... focus of policy debates and plans for system reform</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Below is the one we ran against Chattahoochee MN)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The 50 states and relevant United States territories should substantially increase their funding of port security.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Port security is done by the states and it’s a relevant question</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Frittelli 05** – Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, Congressional Research Service (John F., May 27, 2005, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” CRS, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/homesec/RL31733.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Port Governance and Financing In considering how to e... ports generally break even or are minimally profitable. 32</span>

====<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 1.1em; line-height: 1.5;">**EIS CP**</span>==== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(This is the one we ran against Iowa City High. Look below for neg strat)</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment for a joint seabasing strategy</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">subject to completion of a binding environmental impact assessment.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">And, impact statement ensures plan does not have devastating effect on environment</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Wexler 8** (Lesley, Professor of Law – Florida State University and Former Debater – University of Michigan, “Human Rights Impact Assessments: An Immigration Case Study”, Georgetown Immigration Law Journal, 22 Geo. Immigr. L.J. 285, Winter, Lexis)sbl</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Under the National Environmental Protection...the choice of reasonable alternatives. n104</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shipping Act CP</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Text: The United States federal government should amend the Shipping Act providing port authorities with the power to assess cargo-based fees on Port Users for qualifying transportation projects including harbor deepening projects.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP solves new port construction, security measures and environmental protection</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cook, JD Candidate, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christopher, 38 Fordham Urb. L.J. 1523, “FUNDING PORT-RELATED INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT: THE CURRENT DEBATE AND PROPOSED REFORM”, lexis, twm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Containerized cargo is here to stay, but ...for funding under the amendment.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CP solves jobs, increases tax revenues and ensures global competitiveness.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cook, JD Candidate, 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Christopher, 38 Fordham Urb. L.J. 1523, “FUNDING PORT-RELATED INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT: THE CURRENT DEBATE AND PROPOSED REFORM”, lexis, twm)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Significant debate has arisen over...in the fast-evolving trade in containerized cargo.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Carbon Pipelines CP</span>=== 

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Text: The United States federal government should substantially invest in regulated pipeline transportation infrastructure for captured carbon in the United States**.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CCS eliminates the majority of emissions</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Parfomak et. Al, 9-</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Paul, July 31, 2009, Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Policy, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues,” CRS Report for Congress) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congress has long been concerned about the ... require a dedicated interstate pipeline network.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Air pollution causes ecological issues and ozone loss – harms all living organisms</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Driesen 3** – Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law. J.D. Yale Law School</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(David, 1989, Fall/Spring, 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, p. 26-8)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Air pollution can make life unsustainable by harming... ensure that humans can life a healthy and productive life.</span>
==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kritiks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Cap K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Transportation infrastructure and industry are intrinsically capitalist in that they add value to commodities produced by laborers, giving no benefit to the worker</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**WBT 11** [Workers Bush Telegraph – nonprofit global union of workers – includes sociologists and various professors, March 22, 2011, “Railways and Capitalism”, [[http://workersbushtelegraph.com.au/2011/03/22/railways-and-capitalism/]] JEF]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Just like workers in other industries, ... and Japanese monopoly capitalists.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">B. Capitalism will cause extinction through environmental destruction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Foster, Clark, and York 10** (John Bellamy, Prof of Sociology @ U of Oregon, Brett, assist. prof of sociology @ NCSU, and Richard, assoc. prof of sociology @ U of Oregon, Monthly Review Vol. 62.6 November JF)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Seen in the context of a ...and sustainability are the explicit goals.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">C. Our alternative is to vote negative to refuse to participate in activities which support capitalism. We must hollow out capitalist structures by refusing to invest our energy in reforms and rescue operations</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Herod 4** (James, Getting Free, [[http://site.www.umb.edu/faculty/salzman_g/Strate/GetFre/06.htm]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is time to try to describe,...and possibly even to extinction.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Heg K</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their depiction of United States “benevolent hegemony” is massively ignorant of history and legitimizes the third American holocaust. Extension of hegemony promotes a framework of American universal history which terminates the being of all others. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Sardar & Wyn Davies 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;"> [Ziauddin, Visiting Professor, the School of Arts, The City University, London, Chair – Muslim Institute; Merryl, Welsh Muslim anthropologist; American Terminator: Myths, Movies, and Global Power p211]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Consider, for example, Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian apologist for American ... ideological heritage of mankind'. Indeed, they are not people at all!</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AND - There are two models for public intellectuals: We can either emulate expert pundits like Kagan who aim their advice at centers of power or we can be intellectuals like Chomsky- exposing lies and providing the toolkit needed to mobilize for change – this is the role of the ballot</span>**

Our alternat**ive is not a fiated advocacy to be implemented by policy elites, but a way to lay bare the lies and propaganda advanced by the 1ac, which is an ethically superior approach that provides ordinary citizens with the agency to pursue alternatives.**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Guerlain 6 (</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Pierre, Professor at Paris West University Nanterre La Défense, “Robert Kagan and Noam Chomsky: Two ways of being a political intellectual”, Comparative International Studies, Vol 4(4): 446-458 GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; line-height: 1.5;">Although the word 'intellectual' is more frequently used in Europe...r more to Chomsky than the nation-state while the princes of the nation are Kagan's main focus.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rhetoric K</span>=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Their use of the word “disabled” reinforces a biological model of ability that naturalizes discrimination against people with impairments</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Harpur 2012** (Paul, TC Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland, Brisbane, “From disability to ability: changing the phrasing of the debate,” Disability & Society Vol. 21, No. 2, http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/09687599.2012.654985.)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Arguably the word ‘disabled’ has developed to support..with different abilities by reference to what they are not.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Ableism” is the preferred nomenclature – it enables coherent political activity without prioritizing certain groups over others</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Harpur 2012[Paul, TC Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland, Brisbane, “From disability to ability: changing the phrasing of the debate,” Disability & Society Vol. 21, No. 2]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is important for disability scholarship to deconstruct the...and thus increase the impact of advocacy focused on avoiding ableism.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">“Ableism” is the preferred nomenclature – it enables coherent political activity without prioritizing certain groups over others</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Harpur 2012**[Paul, TC Beirne School of Law, University of Queensland, Brisbane, “From disability to ability: changing the phrasing of the debate,” Disability & Society Vol. 21, No. 2]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">It is important for disability scholarship to ... thus increase the impact of advocacy focused on avoiding ableism.</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">CTS K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The aff’s description of the terrorist threat is over-exaggerated- these impact claims not only undermine the credibility of all terror scholarship, but are used to legitimize wars, torture, targeted killings, and elimination of civil liberties</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jackson 08** Director at the National Center for Peace and Conflict Studies</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Richard, 2/14/08, “The Study of Terrorism after 11 September 2001: Problems, Challenges and Future Developments,” Political Studies Review, volume: 7, p. 171.184, CPO)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The vast majority of terrorism studies ... increased military spending and the like (Jackson, 2007b).</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Vote negative to reject the aff’s hegemonic truth regime about terrorism: their knowledge production only functions to legitimize state violence.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Jackson 09** Senior Researcher @ Centre for the Study of Radicalization and Contemporary Political Violence</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Richard, Reader in the Department of International Politics @ Aberystwyth University, Critical Terrorism Studies: A New Research Agenda, ed. Jackson, Smyth, and Gunning, p.77-80, GAL)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In contrast to first order critique,... clear ideological consequences for society.</span>

===Natives K=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The 1AC is fundamentally unethical because it occurs on a stage of Indian colonization</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Grande 4** (Sandy, Associate Professor of Education at Connecticut College, Ph.D., Kent State University, Fellow in the Holleran Center for Community Action and Public Policy, member of the EPA’s National Environmental Justice Advisory Council’s Indigenous People’s Work Group, “Red Pedagogy”, pg. 154-156, og)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Though revolutionary feminisms have relevance for indigenous women… that we Native daughters, love, honor, and respect, the Mother of Us All.¶ (James Guerrero 1997,218)</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Place ethics above the contingent impacts of the aff – it preserves debate as an activity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Duffy 83** [Bernard, Rhetoric PhD – Pitt, Communication Prof – Cal Poly, “The Ethics of Argumentation in Intercollegiate Debate: A Conservative Appraisal,” National Forensics Journal, Spring, pp 65-71, accessed at [[http://www.nationalforensics.org/journal/vol1no1-6.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Debate at its worst is an activity which promotes self-abnegation rather than self discovery.Intercollegiate … ethical beliefs in the formulation of arguments.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The alternative is to reject the aff and instead embrace Red pedagogy. </span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">This round, this space, is a setting in which you should deploy Red Pedagogy – that is, an educational praxis which foregrounds Native intellectualism. Red pedagogy allows us to create a decolonized democratic space and activate our political agency</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Grande 8** (Sandy, Associate Professor of Education at Connecticut College, Ph.D., Kent State University, Fellow in the Holleran Center for Community Action and Public Policy, member of the EPA’s National Environmental Justice Advisory Council’s Indigenous People’s Work Group, “Red Pedagogy” in Handbook of Critical and Indigenous Methodologies, pg. 242-3, og)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">From the standpoint of Red pedagogy, the primary lesson …America, so too does the more hopeful spirit of indigeneity.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Militarism K</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">They turn debate into a factory for militarized knowledge that works to encompass our lives</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Armitage. 2005** (John, Principal Lecturer and Acting Head of Media and Communication @ U of</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Northumbria, "Militarization of higher education". The Review of Education, Pedagogy, and Cultural</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;"> Studies. 27:219-239,2005m)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">My contention is that knowledge is becoming increasingly ... militarized knowledge factories in the age of hypermodernity and Empire.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Militarism causes other isms and is the root cause of global and domestic problems, challenging the influence of the military itself is key</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">COMD 1</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Committee Opposed to Militarism and the Draft, Sept 4, http://www.comdsd.org/militarism.html</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Militarism is a value system that stresses the superiority ...of the most powerful purveyor of militarism, the military establishment itself.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Voting neg on T solves our militarized knowledge factory arguments</span>**

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Armitage, 2005** (John, Principal Lecturer and Acting Head of Media and Communication @ U of</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Northumbria, "Militarization of higher education" The Review of Education, Pedagogy, and Culture</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Studies, 27:219-239,2005m)</span>


<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Resisting hypermodern militarized knowledge factories obviously...de-militarized investigations, achievements and socially directed research is conducted.</span>




==<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Strategies</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Hooch</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Pace DH</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Pace Academy (GA) - Katie Duval & Erik Howard|Nextgen]] (Drones, Air Power)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Oct. Suprise DA, States CP, T- TI, Oil DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Case, States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Oct. Suprise DA, T</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Oct. Suprise DA</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 4 vs. Westminster PY</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Westminster Schools (GA) - Rahul Patel & Alisa Yang|CCS]] (Warming, Environmental Leadership)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Oct. Suprise, States CP, T-TI, Cap K, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Cap. K, Warming</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Oct. Suprise DA, Enviro. Lead</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Cap. K</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 5 vs. Milton VG</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Milton (GA) - Shaun Verma & Akash Gogate - Affirmative|Mayport]] (Strategic Dispersal, Surge)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T- Military, States CP, Elections DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: T, States CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Elections</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alpharetta</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Woodward PG</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Woodward Academy (GA) - Meera Gorjala & Sahil Patel|Surface Transport]] (Econ Stimulus. Competitiveness)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Elections, T- maintain, Food Prices, States</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: T, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Elections</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Elections</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Hooch LK</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/Chattahoochee KL Affirmative (2012-2013)#Accessibility%20Affirmative|Accessibility]] (Aesthetics, Universalism)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Framework, T- Repair, Universal Design CP, Federalism, Cap K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: K</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">University of Michigan</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. GBN HK</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Glenbrook North (IL) - Kim Hill and Jacob Kahn#Affirmative|Port Dredging]] (Economy, Manufacturing)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Cap K, Earth DA, Shipping Act CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Cap K., Econ. Adv.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Earth DA, Manufacturing Adv.</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Cap K</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Iowa City GV</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:**[[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Iowa City High (IA) - Kieran Green & Ava Vargason#Affirmative-1AC%20Michigan| Seabasing ]](China, Syria)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Earth DA, T- Miltary, Oil DA, EIS CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: EIS CP, Earth DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: T-Miltary</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Earth DA, Case</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs. Hooch MS</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Chattahoochee (GA) - Listya Munthe & Manasi Sinha|Port Security]] (Terrorism, Coast Guard)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: CTS K, T- TI, UAV CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: UAV CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: CTS K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: CTS K</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Crestian</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 1 vs. Niles West NP</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[2012-2013 - Niles West (IL) - Theo Noparstak & Jonass Placitis|Port Security]] (Terrorism, Econ)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T-TI, UAV CP, Ozone DA, Immigration Reform DA, States CP, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: T-TI, States CP, Econ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Politics, Terrorism</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Politics</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Cypress Bay US</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Cyress Bay (FL) - Ignacio Sabate & Josh Ulino|Disabilities]] (Automobility, Stigma)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Immigration Reform DA, States CP, Rhetoric K, T-TI, Federalism DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Rhetoric K, States CP, Federalism DA, Stigma</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: Politics, Automobility</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: States CP w/ Politics NB</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 6 vs. Bronx BK</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Bronx Science (NY) - Abla Belhachmi & Anastasia Kazteridis|Climate Adaptatio]]n (Warming, Econ, Heg)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: CO2 Pipelines CP, Food Prices DA, Immigration Reform DA, Case</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Food Prices DA, Politics, Econ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: CP, Warming, Econ, Solvency</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: CP w/ Food Prices NB</span>

===<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">UGA</span>=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 2 vs. Carrollton Sacred Heart GT</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** High Speed Rail (Econ, Warming)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: Gas Tax CP, Natives K, Earth Disad</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Natives K, Warming</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: CP, DA, Econ</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Abelism K ("Paralysis"), CP w/ Earth NB</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Round 3 vs. Caddo Magnet JM</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** [[debatecoaches/2012-2013 - Caddo Magnet (LA) - Elijah Ash & Jay Jain|Sea Bases]] (Arctic Conflict, Pacific, Iran)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: T-Mil, Militarism K, Natives K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Natives K, Arctic Conflict</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: T-Mil, Militarism K, Iran, Pacific</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Natives K</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Round 5 vs. Chattahoochee MN**</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Aff:** Port Dredging (Terror, Coastguard)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NC: CTS K, Immigration Reform DA, States CP</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NC: Ptx, Terror, Coastguard</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1NR: CTS K</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">2NR: Ptx DA</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>