[[toc]]
If you have any questions, email Marcus at marcusmangeldebate@gmail.com
=Affirmative (Michigan)= 
==Inherency== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>

Richard Allen, retired… longer be sustained.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Whiteneck, et al. ‘10</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; “The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?” Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>

<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">For the past…naval BMD assets</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Verdana','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>
==Plan== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its CVN fleet</span>**
==Economy== 
**Economy is on the verge of a crash – no resiliency**
Christopher S. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rugaber</span>**, staff writer, Bloomberg, 6-1-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2012</span>**, “US economy added 69K jobs in May, fewest in a year”, Bloomberg Businessweek, http://www.businessweek.com/ap/2012-06/D9V4CNRO0.htm

The U.S. economy…the global economy.

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 16px;">The recovery will fail – it’s too fragile </span>**
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Samson 12</span>** (Samson, Adam, a writer for Fox News, 7/16/12, Fox News, Gloomy Economic Data Sap Wall Street's Enthusiasm, </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">http://www.foxbusiness.com/markets/2012/07/16/gloomy-economic-data-sap-wall-street-enthusiasm/#ixzz20tC63kN)</span>

After posting … risks "loom large."

**Econ decline causes war**
Zalmay **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Khalilzad,</span>** was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2011</span>**, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024

Today, economic…and of multi-polarity**__.__**

**Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Krugman, </span>**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton</span>**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">, 12</span>**
[Paul, __End This Depression Now__, 2012, p. ]

In the…into this depression

**Plan immediately stimulates through the economy**
James **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Cypher</span>**, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars & Sense, July-August, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002</span>**, p19(4)

The CEP attempts…otherwise erratic movement.
==Naval Heg== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Helprin 11</span>**( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter's Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America's seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/|http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html//]]</span>**//__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> A rad G) </span>__//**

Separated by the…and unrestrained adventurism.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 1 is war,</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lack of US naval heg will result in global war</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Kagan ‘7</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, “End of Dreams, Return of History”, 7-19-2007,</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html]]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>

This is a…an easier path.

**Scenarios 2 is Iran,**

**Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Dyer, 10</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, “Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff,” 5-12-2010, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

Each of the…lots of them.

**Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Talmadge, 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, “Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz,” International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116, </span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">)</span>

The United States…U.S. force posture

**WW3**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Steinberg, 7</span>** (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, <span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st]]</span>)

On Sept. 25…World War III has begun."
==Airpower== 
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Air mobility __vital internal link__ to overall air power- its declining now</span>**
Richard J. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Hazdra, </span>**Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2001</span>** http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf

Since airlift was…national security requirements.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 1 is HEG</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Airpower is vital to maintain U.S. hegemony</span>**
Major William K. **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Lewis</span>**, senior pilot in the T-37, T-38, AT-38 and F-15 Eagle, Distinguished Graduate of the Squadron Officer School and the Air Command and Staff College, and graduate of the School of Advanced Airpower Studies, June **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2002</span>**, “UCAV – THE NEXT GENERATION AIR-SUPERIORITY FIGHTER?”, school of advanced airpower studies @ Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama.

Air superiority …the foreseeable future<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collapse of heg causes great power transition wars, destroys democratic peace, and causes economic collapse – Apolarity results – can’t solve any world problems </span>**
Bradley **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Thayer</span>**, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Minnesota, December, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2006</span>**, "In Defense of Primacy,” The National Interest, Lexis.

Retrenchment proponents…the world's ills.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Scenario 2 is Terrorism.</span>**

**US air power is key to fighting terrorism**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rand 03</span>**, RAND Project Air Force, “Annual Report 2003”, 2003, http://www.rand.org/pubs/annual_reports/2005/AR7089.pdf //ER//

//The war on…and other locations.//

//**That prevents nuclear war**//
//Chuck **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Freilich</span>**, Senior Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs, 4-**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">2010, “The Armageddon Scenario: Israel and the Threat of Nuclear Terrorism” http://www.biu.ac.il/Besa/MSPS84.pdf </span>**//**ER**

The first key…or North Korea.
==Solvency== 
**Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob

Most fundamentally, naval …in other regions.

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Allen</span>**, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, **<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">01</span>**
Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., “Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count!,” Sea Power, June 2001, jacob

Size and Mobility…United States of America.

**Aircraft carriers key to US power projection**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Rubel 11</span>**(Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. “The Future of Aircraft Carriers”, Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers]]</span> EG)

Geopolitical Chess Piece… disconnect is magnified.

**Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">US Navy 12</span>**(“Aircraft Carriers – CVN”, Fact File, January 6, <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200&tid=200&ct=4]]</span> EG)

Description Aircraft carriers…replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).

=Affirmative (Evanston/State)= 
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Inherency</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">First is inherency.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">We don’t have the naval capabilities to adequately respond to crisis</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">During the height of the Cold War in the mid-1980s, the U</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">more with less" posture of the 1990s can no longer be sustained.</span>



<span style="font-size: 16px;">The navy’s role has expanded – but it’s being crippled by a lack of resources</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Whiteneck, et al.’10</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;"> (Dr. Daniel J. Whiteneck, Ph.D., Director for European Programs in the Center for Strategic Studies at the Center for Naval Analyses, former Professor of Political Science at Towson University and Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy and at the University of Colorado at Boulder; Dr. Michael Price; Dr. Neil Jenkins; Dr. Peter M. Swartz, Research Analyst at CNA; "The Navy at a Tipping Point: Maritime Dominance at Stake?" Center for Naval Analyses, report prepared for the U.S. Department of Defense, March 2010, p.4-21, ~~[~~[</span><span style="font-size: 12.6667px;">http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf-http://www.public.navy.mil/usff/Documents/navy_at_tipping_point.pdf~~]~~]//</span>//<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 12.6667px;">) </span>//

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">For the past 60 years</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">…</span><span style="font-size: 16px;"> naval BMD assets</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Economy</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Advantage 1 is the economy</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">U.S economy fragile-Consumer Confidence declining</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zhang 12/11</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;">(BY Moran Zhang Confidence In US Economic Growth Falls, Across The Board| December 11 2012 http://www.ibtimes.com/confidence-us-economic-growth-falls-across-board-932779)</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Since the U.S. recessions start at the end of 2007, consumers</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">need to rebound from below 2 percent to 3 percent," Dales said.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Economic decline causes war</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zalmay Khalilzad, was the United States ambassador to Afghanistan, Iraq, and the United Nations during the presidency of George W. Bush and the director of policy planning at the Defense Department from 1990 to 1992, 2-8-2011, "The Econom and National Security" www.nationalreview.com/blogs/print/259024</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Today, economic and fiscal trends pose the most severe long-term threat to</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">leading the world toward a new, dangerous era of multi-polarity.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Statistics and empirics are on our side</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan immediately stimulates through the economy</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">James Cypher, Professor of Economics at CSU-Fresno, Dollars %26 Sense, July-August, 2002, p19(4)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The CEP attempts to show that the U.S. economy’s low level of</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">floor" underneath the economy,helping to stabilize its otherwise erratic movement.</span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan solves - Government spending stimulates econ</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Krugman 12</span>, Nobel Prize Economics and Professor of Economics and Int. Affairs Princeton, 12<span style="font-size: 16px;"> ~~[Paul, End This Depression Now, 2012, p. ~~]</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">In the middle of 1939 the U.S. economy was past the worst</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">some more about the crisis of 2008, which plunged us into this depression</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Military</span>//


//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Advantage 2 is the military.</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Naval power prevents great power conflicts and is key to heg</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Helprin 11( MARK HELPRIN, a senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter’s Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in Americas seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans, WSJ</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">~~[~~[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html-http:</span>//online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html/~~]~~])
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Separated by the oceans from sources of raw materials in the Middle East, Africa</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">and to prevent the wars attendant to imbalances of power and unrestrained adventurism.</span>


<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scenario 1 is War</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lack of US naval heg will result in global war</span>
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Kagan’7</span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Robert Kagan, Senior Fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, "End of Dreams, Return of History", 7-19-2007, ~~[~~[</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html-http:</span>//<span style="font-size: 16px;">www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2007/07/end_of_dreams_return_of_histor.html~~]~~]</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span>//

//<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">This is a good thing, … </span><span style="font-size: 16px;">provide an easier path</span><span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scenario 2 is Iran,</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Declining sea power means we lose access to the Strait of Hormuz</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Dyer, 10 - journalist and former intelligence analyst, served internationally for US Naval Intelligence from 1983 to 2004 (J.E, "Naval Decline: It Starts with the Small Stuff," 5-12-2010, ~~[~~[http://theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/-http:</span>//theoptimisticconservative.wordpress.com/2010/05/12/naval-decline-it-starts-with-the-small-stuff/~~]~~])
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Each of the services has come in for its share of such criticism since 1991</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">, Aegis cruisers and destroyers, attack submarines – and lots of them.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Ensures escalation of conflict – draws the US in conventionally and prompts Iranian aggression</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Talmadge, 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Caitlin Talmadge, doctoral candidate in political science at the Security Studies Program, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, former fellow at the John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University, "Closing Time: Assessing the Iranian Threat to the Strait of Hormuz," International Security, 33(1), Summer 2008, p.115-116, ~~[~~[http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge%20article.pdf-http://web.mac.com/caitlintalmadge/Site/Publications_files/Talmadge article.pdf~~]~~])//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">The United States’ ultimate military superiority vis-à-vis Iran is without question</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">likely. This analysis has signiªcant implications for U.S. force posture</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">That escalates to World War III and extinction</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Steinberg, 7 (Jeffrey, The People’s Voice, http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/cgi-bin/blogs/voices.php/2007/10/04/cheney_s_ouster_may_be_last_chance_to_st)</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">On Sept. 25, retired CIA officer Philip Giraldi penned a frightening piece for</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">of intervention. As Giraldi concludes, "World War III has begun."</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scenario 3 is China</span>**//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Decreasing American naval presence leads to Chinese expansionism – that causes a Chinese arms race and Asian instability</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Helprin 11(Mark Helprin, senior fellow at the Claremont Institute, is the author of, among other works, "Winter’s Tale" (Harcourt), "A Soldier of the Great War" (Harcourt) and, most recently, "Digital Barbarism" (HarperCollins), "The Decline of U.S. Naval Power Sixty ships were commonly underway in America’s seaward approaches in 1998, but today there are only 20. We are abdicating our role on the oceans", WSJ</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052748704150604576166362512952294.html </span>//eR)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">And yet the fleet has been made to wither even in time of war.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">past and sufficient to its future. Pity it if it does not.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Absent increased American naval intervention, that leads to escalatory regional war which draws in the US</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Klein 8/24</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> (Brian Klein, Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow, ex-US diplomat to China and India, writer and global strategist focusing on macroeconomic, geopolitical, and security issues, "Former US Diplomat: The Next Battlefield Will Be The South China Sea" http://www.businessinsider.com/the-south-china-sea-sparks-arms-race-2012-8, 8-24-12 //eR)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Tensions are rising again in Southeast Asia as competing claims over the resource rich South</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">with a leadership transition underway in Beijing as nationalistic and even jingoistic tendencies rise</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">throughout the country. Appeasement also has its discontents. This is the fine line</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">China should not underestimate U.S. resolve to maintain the peace.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">That causes nuclear war and extinction</span>**//
//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Straits Times 2k</span>**<span style="font-size: 16px;"> (Singapore, June 25, 2000, No one gains in war over Taiwan </span>//eR)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The US estimates that China possesses about 20 nuclear warheads that can destroy major American</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">War was to assess Chinese actions according to the American way of thinking.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Scenario 4 is airpower</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Air mobility is the vital internal link to overall air power – it’s declining now</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Richard J. Hazdra, Major, USAF, Fairchild Paper, Air University Press August 2001 http://www.au.af.mil/au/aul/aupress/fairchild_papers/Hazdra/Hazdra.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Since airlift was first used as a tool of national security during the Berlin airlift</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AMC to determine if it can realistically continue to meet national security requirements.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Airpower deters multiple scenarios for nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Zalmay Khalilzad and Ian O. Lesser. "Sources of Conflict in the 21st Century: Regional Futures and U.S. Strategy," 1998 http://www.rand.org/pubs/monograph_reports/MR897/</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">The first key implication derived from the analysis of trends in Asia suggests that American</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">effects, as in China, Indonesia, Myanmar, or North Korea.</span>




<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in its aircraft carrier fleet.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Solvency</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan solves, carriers are key to sea power, air mobility, and airpower overall</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Allen 01, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Most fundamentally, naval forces, particularly those centered on large-deck carriers,</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">divert additional carriers already forward-deployed for critical missions in other regions.</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Nothing can challenge a US carrier, more carriers are the only way to preserve hegemony – all other solutions fail</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Allen, former commander US Atlantic Fleet and former president Association of Naval Aviation, 01</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Richard Allen, retired from active duty in 1996 as commander, Naval Air Force, U.S. Atlantic Fleet, and is the immediate past president of the Association of Naval Aviation., "Aircraft carriers and sea-based air power: Smaller is not better and numbers do count%21," Sea Power, June 2001, jacob</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Size and Mobility: The Keys to Survival During the Navy League’s Sea-Air</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">really be "the right stuff" for the United States of America.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Aircraft carriers are key to US power projection</span>**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Rubel 11 (Professor Robert Rubel is Dean of Naval Warfare Studies at the Naval War College. "The Future of Aircraft Carriers", Naval War College Review, Autumn 2011, ~~[~~[http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers-http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/87bcd2ff-c7b6-4715-b2ed-05df6e416b3b/The-Future-of-Aircraft-Carriers~~]~~] EG)//</span>
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Geopolitical Chess Piece. It has been the habit of American presidents and their advisers</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">Soviet navy) the potential for a role/risk disconnect is magnified.</span>//

//**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Aircraft carriers key to Hegemony-power projection, airpower, and humanitarian intervention</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 16px;">US Navy 12 ("Aircraft Carriers – CVN", Fact File, January 6, ~~[~~[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200%26tid=200%26ct=4-http:</span>//www.navy.mil/navydata/fact_display.asp?cid=4200%26tid=200%26ct=4~~]~~] EG)
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Description Aircraft carriers are the centerpiece of Americas Naval forces. On any given day</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">slated to be delivered in 2015 to replace USS Enterprise (CVN 65).</span>

=Negative= 
==Maine East Scrimmage== 
===Round 1=== 
Aff: Port Security

T Infrastructure
Privatization CP
Elections DA
Spending DA
===Round 3=== 
Aff: HSR

T Vehicles
Elections DA
Privatization CP

==Michigan== 
===Round 2=== 
Aff: Dredging

T Maintenence
T Water Infrastructure
Elections
States CP
===Round 4=== 
Aff: Icebreakers

T in the US
Security K
Fiscal Cliff

===Round 5=== 
Aff: Katrina

T In means throughout
Utopia K
Cap K
Urban Planning K
Fiscal Cliff DA
==Evanston== 
===Round 1=== 
Aff: Icebreakers

T Infrastructure
Security K
DoD Tradeoff DA
Sequestration DA

===Round 3=== 
Aff: Port Security

T Infrastructure
Counterterrorism CP
War on Terror K

===Round 5=== 
Aff: Inland Waterways

T Water Infrastructure
Cap K
Immigraion DA
States CP

==State== 
===Round 2=== 
Aff: Dredging

T Maintenence
Cap K
CIR DA
States CP

===Round 3=== 
Aff: HSR

T Vehicles
States CP
CIR DA
Cap K