=Contact= 
[[media type="facebooklike" key="http%3A%2F%2Fwiki.debatecoaches.org%2F2012-2013%20-%20Homestead%20(WI)%20-%20Austin%20Cao%20%26%20Collin%20Cademartori" width="360" height="1.5; height: 64"]]
aff: caoaustin@gmail.com
neg: collincad@gmail.com

sorry verbatim is terrible at formatting

"we completely motorboated them on the T-'its' flow"
=Affirmative= 
actually on second thought, we're never going to read this aff again.
===FRAMEWORK=== 

====Affirmatives should be responsible for the discourse and the desirability of the plan==== 
Resolved means<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> "</span>To determine or decide in purpose; to make ready in mind; to fix;to settle; as, he<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> ~~[or she~~] </span>was resolved by an unexpected event,<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">"</span> that~’sWebster~’s<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> revised unabridged dictionary, 19</span>96<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;"> ~~[This evidence was genderparaphrased~~]</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond,serif;">~~[http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=resolved~~]</span>

should means <span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif;">(DUTY) auxiliary verb </span> used to express that it is necessary, desirable, advisable, or important to perform the action of the following verb that~’s Cambridge Dictionary of American English, 07 <span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-family: Garamond,serif; font-size: 10pt;">([[http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=should*1+0%26dict=A-http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=should*1+0%26dict=A]])</span>

===CTN 1: INHERENCY=== 

====The virtual footprint that current transportation infrastructure has left on the ecosystem is too large, no substantial initiative has been made to restore landscape permeability==== 
**Bissonette and Cramer, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[John Bissonette. Patricia Cramer. Utah State University. "Evaluating the Use and Effectiveness of Wildlife Crossings." NCHRP Report 615. ISSN 0077-5614. U.S. Geological Survey. Transportation Research Board, Washington, D.C. Sponsored by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials with the Federal Highway Administration. Pgs. 11-12 //AC~~]</span>
However, even with forward-looking actions and excellent reports such as Assessing and
AND
Ecological¶ objectives have been met coincident with a continually effective roadway network.

===CTN 2: ECONOMY=== 

====First, wildlife crossings can effectively stop %248 billion in road-kill losses, pushing money directly to consumers==== 
**Labarre, 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Labarre, Suzanne. "Can a Wildlife Bridge Fix America~’s %248 Billion Roadkill Problem?"Co.Design. Fast Company, 26 July 2012. Web. 14 Aug. 2012. <http://www.fastcodesign.com/1662800/can-a-wildlife-bridge-fix-americas-8-billion-roadkill-problem>.//AR~~]//</span>
//We all know that roadkill is a tragic corollary of car culture. What you//
//AND//
//assembled on site, cutting back on the hours construction interferes with traffic.//

//Wildlife-vehicle collisions are increasing//
//TranSafety 97<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[TranSafety. "Study Shows Problem of Vehicle-Wildlife Collisions Increasing." </span>Road Management %26 Engineering Journal<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. TranSafety, Inc., 1997. Web. 01 Dec. 2012. <http://www.usroads.com/journals/rmj/9707/rm970701.htm>.</span>//AR~~]
Calling their article "Vehicle-Animal Crashes: An Increasing Safety Problem," Warren
AND
deer populations, and increases in traffic volume through areas populated by deer.

====Insurance rates go up after animal collisions, killing consumer spending==== 
**Seitz 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Seitz, Dan. "How Much Will Your Auto Insurance Increase If You Hit a Deer?" Play It Safe Blog. SafeAuto Insurance Company, 26 Oct. 2011. Web. 17 Aug. 2012. <http://www.safeauto.com/Blog/post/2011/10/26/How-Much-Will-Your-Auto-Insurance-Increase-If-You-Hit-a-Deer.aspx>.//AR~~]</span>
Yeah, that in of itself should tell you everything you need to know.
AND
out, and you and the deer will both be a lot happier.

====Consumer spending is key to a healthy economy==== 
**Baxter, 8** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Baxter, Annie. "Consumer Spending Accounts for Two-thirds of U.S. Economy." MPR News. National Public Radio, 30 Oct. 2008. Web. 14 Aug. 2012. <http://minnesota.publicradio.org/display/web/2008/10/29/gdp_numbers_consumer_spending/>.//AR~~]</span>
St. Paul, Minn. — More than two-thirds of the nation~’s
AND
, Bernard says she~’s got plenty of free time to staff the rides.

====Also, infrastructure stimulus contributes to economic growth==== 
**NAF, 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[New America Foundation— "The Case for an Infrastructure-Led Jobs and Growth Strategy," [[</span>http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/the_case_for_an_infrastructure_led_jobs_and_growth_strategy-http://www.newamerica.net/publications/policy/the_case_for_an_infrastructure_led_jobs_and_growth_strategy]]//AC~~]
As the Senate takes up a greatly scaled down %2415 billion jobs bill stripped
AND
recoup the cost of the investment through stronger growth and higher tax revenues.


====Economic decline causes global war==== 
**Auslin 9** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Michael, Resident Scholar – American Enterprise Institute, and Desmond Lachman – Resident Fellow – American Enterprise Institute, "The Global Economy Unravels", Forbes, 3-6, [[</span>http://www.aei.org/article/100187-http://www.aei.org/article/100187]]//AC~~]
What do these trends mean in the short and medium term? The Great Depression
AND
may be a series of small explosions that coalesce into a big bang.

===CTN 3: BIODIVERSITY=== 

====Wildlife crossings are key to adapting our transportation infrastructure to the ecological systems that function outside human society.==== 
**Hardy et al, 3** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Amanda Hardy. Anthony Clevenger. Marcel Huijser. Graham Neale. Road ecology center Recent Work, Road Ecology Center, John Muir Institute of the Environment, UC Davis //AC~~]</span>
The more complex research questions included in the above list they are important to understanding
AND
occur in low population densities, such as grizzly bears (Proctor 2003).

====Current transportation infrastructure fragments ecological spaces and disrupts animal habitats==== 
**Folkeson, 6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Lennart, "Habitat fragmentation due to transportation infrastructure," VTI Report 530A, [[http://www.vti.se/sv/publikationer/pdf/biotopfragmentering-till-foljd-av-transportinfrastrukturen-cost-341-svensk-nationell-kunskapsoversikt.pdf-http://www.vti.se/sv/publikationer/pdf/biotopfragmentering-till-foljd-av-transportinfrastrukturen-cost-341-svensk-nationell-kunskapsoversikt.pdf]] //AC~~]</span>
The physical presence of roads and railways in the landscape creates new habitat edges,
AND
invasion of non-native, sometimes pest species, can be facilitated).


====Habitat fragmentation is the greatest contributor to the destruction of biodiversity- 10 internal links prove==== 
**Fahrig, 03 ~~[Lenore Fahrig. Ottawa-Carleton Institute of Biology. "Effects of habitat fragmentation on biodiversity." Published as a Review in Advance by Annual Reviews. //AC~~]**
Habitat loss has large, consistently negative effects on biodiversity, so researchers who conceptualize
AND
local extinction rate, and turnover rate of forest birds in 214 landscapes.
AUTHOR CONTINUES…
The number of individuals of any species that a landscape can support should be a
AND
of habitat loss (see The 20–30% Threshold, below).


====Species extinction is the greatest threat to the ~’home~’, it leads to the eventual human extinction as well as the extinction of 100 million other species==== 
**Whitty, 7** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[The Independent, "Animal Extinction – the greatest threat to mankind", Julia Whitty, 2007, [[http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/animal-extinction—the-greatest-threat-to-mankind-397939.html-http://www.independent.co.uk/environment/animal-extinction--the-greatest-threat-to-mankind-397939.html]] //HB~~]</span>
In the final stages of dehydration the body shrinks, robbing youth from the young
AND
culpability, and, ultimately, one of up to 100 million victims.

===CTN 4: GAIA=== 

====The status quo places transportation infrastructure in the lens of anthropology- human luxury has become the only method of evaluating decisions.The biodiversity sub-point proves this- our policies have continually neglected both the interconnectivity and intrinsicness of species.==== 
**Bennett et al, 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[Victoria J. Bennett is a postdoctoral research associate, Department of Forest Ecosystems and Society, Oregon State University,Winston P. Smith is a research wildlife biologist, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Research Station, Matthew G. Betts is an assistant professor of landscape ecology, Department of Forest Ecosystems and Society, Oregon State University. "Toward Understanding the Ecological Impact of Transportation Corridors," [[www.fs.fed.us/pnw/pubs/pnw_gtr846.pdf-http://www.fs.fed.us/pnw/pubs/pnw_gtr846.pdf]] //AC~~]</span>
Transportation corridors (notably roads) affect wildlife habitat, populations, and entire ecosystems
AND
implications of transportation infrastructure on species distributions, community structure and ecosystem function.

====Ignoring the vast ecosystems that we live in not only culminates in extinction, it alienates us from nature, destroying value to life.==== 
**Gottlieb, 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ~~[Roger S. </span>**Gottlieb**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. professor of humanities at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, </span>**1994**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, "ETHICS AND TRAUMA: LEVINAS, FEMINISM, AND DEEP ECOLOGY", [[http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm-http://www.crosscurrents.org/feministecology.htm]] //AC~~]</span>
Perhaps there is in progress another, even more encompassing Death Event, which can
AND
women can feed an infant, but we have only one earth mother.

====The alternative is to embrace the larger biotic community through the plan. An anamorphic approach can set a precedent for future policies, so that implementing wildlife crossings will be the first step towards adapting our species to the world around us.==== 
**Harding, 5** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Stephan, doctorate in ecology from the University of Oxford, a degree in Zoology from the University of Durham, and has many years experience of ecological field research and of teaching at University level. "What is deep ecology", [[http://biomimicry.typepad.com/bioinspire/files/BioInspire.23-01.31.05.pdf-http://biomimicry.typepad.com/bioinspire/files/BioInspire.23-01.31.05.pdf]] //AC~~]</span>
Notice that the experience was not looked for, expected or contrived. It happened
AND
background. This may subtly influence the people with whom they interact professionally.


===PLAN=== 

====Thus the plan: United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in a national wildlife crossing infrastructure in the United States. Funding is provided by the Control Spending Now Act. We reserve the right to clarify our intent.==== 

===CTN 5: SOLVENCY=== 

====Germany is far along in the development of a wildlife crossing infrastructure – proves solvency is easily accessible Hagood ~’02<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[Susan Hagood, the Humane Society, "Germany: Where Roads and Wildlife Coexist", Summer 2002, US Department of Transportation – Federal Highway Administration, "Greener Roadsides" //HB~~]</span>==== 
There are now 32 overpasses, or green bridges, in Germany. Eight more
AND
Germans are increasing efforts to build green bridges where needed on existing roads.

====Wildlife crossings solve – Utah proves==== 
UDOT, 12<span style="font-size: 8pt;">~~[report prepared for Utah Department of Transportation, 2012, authored by Patricia Cramer, submitted by Utah Transportation Center. Patricia Cramer is a Research Assistant Professor at Department of Wildland Resources //HB~~]</span>
The MP 200.7 Bridge passed hundreds of animals each year, making it
AND
structures, it is not known if they are functional for these species.

=Negative= 


===LOCALISM CP (EN MASSE)=== 
<span style="display: block; text-align: center;">
</span>
The United States Federal Government should support mass localism and begin deconstruction and demolition of existing intra- and inter-national commerce and transportation mechanisms as communities reach self-sufficiency. We reserve the right to clarify our intent.


====Industrial capacity is achievable at the local level- technology can sustain local self-sufficient communities like has never been possible before through cooperative technology development and smart utilization of local resources. The benefits are clear, the time is now.==== 
Jakubowski, 11 <span style="font-size: 10pt;">~~["Open-sourced Blueprints for Civilization," TED, http://www.ted.com/talks /marcin_ jakubowski.html, 7/19/12//CC~~]//</span>

//Hi, my name is Marcin — farmer, technologist. I was born in//
//AND//
//all can do to make a better world with open hardware technology.//

//Studies prove that crowded interdependent impersonal cities create stress. Conversely, iving in self-sufficient communities would create a more desirable and angst-free existence.//
//Derbyshire ~’11 ~~["A rural life is better: Living in a concrete jungle is stressful and make you vulnerable to depression," DailyMail, http://www.dailymail.co.uk/sciencetech/article-2006988/A-rural -life-better-Living-concrete-jungle-really-stressful-make-vulnerable-depression.html, 10/20/12//CC~~]
Scientists have confirmed what every urbanite has long suspected – life in the city is
AND
upbringing had a more active cingulate cortex – a region involved in regulating stress

Localism solves for the largest environmental concerns, Britain~’s limited experience has already proved that concerted local effort produces unprecedented results at a fraction of the cost, putting Britain on track to reach its emissions goals for the first time, and ahead of schedule too%21
Bunt %26 Harry ~’10 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">~~["Mass Localism," NESTA,http://www.nesta.org.uk/library /documents/MassLocalism_Feb2010.pdf, 9/28/12//CC~~]//</span>

//This means that in the space of just one year these community-led interventions//
//AND//
//000) a significant contribution to the Government~’s ambitions for the programme.//



//Studies have shown that most of the world~’s power is held by the most economically influential international capitalists.//
//RT ~’11 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">~~["It~’s not a conspiracy%21 Elite controls global economy," http://rt.com/news/global-elite-economy-conspiracy-427/, 9/21/12</span>//CC~~]
Bankers really do control the world%21 That~’s according to Swiss researchers who, in
AND
of the researchers behind the study, as cited by the New Scientist.

The current conditions of the global elite have been threatened by the rise of the Euro and the economic competition of Asia. Localizing maintains the free market of capitalism while expelling the toxic international elite that would draw us into conflict over resources and currencies – localism solves for hegemony.
Iseri ~’07 <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">~~["Neo-Gramscian Analysis of US Hegemony Today," SPIRE, http://www.in-spire.org/archive/Previous/ei02062007_Neo-Gramscian_US_Hegemony.pdf, 9/21/12//CC~~]//</span>
//The twenty-first century is witnessing significant and perhaps unparalleled changes in world politics//
//AND//
///consent in U.S. hegemony has shifted decidedly toward coercion.//

//Big businesses also hurt local community businesses which are more versatile, secure and diverse, numerous studies of Walmart prove. The economic potential of small businesses is severely hindered by the parasitic effect of corporatism.//
//Barrison ~’11 <span style="font-size: 12pt;">~~["Study proves it: Walmart super-stores kill off local small businesses," Daily News, http://www.nydailynews.com/new-york/brooklyn/study-proves-walmart-super-stores-kill-local-small-businesses-article-1.140129, 9/21/12</span>//CC~~]
You~’d think Walmart would have learned its lesson.The big-box giant has
AND
and-pop shops help anchor our busiest and most vibrant business districts.