[[toc]]
=EIS CP= 
==1NC Policy Version== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Text: The Department of Transportation should submit (insert function of plan) for a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The counterplan solves – the process of evaluating environmentally friendly alternatives prior to action leads to a compromise that solves the aff and avoids environmental harm</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Dreher 5 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">- Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” [[http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Yet another criticism of the NEPA review process is that it impedes the development of</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> , and we succeeded in avoiding appeals that plague controversial timber sales.” 56</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> The counterplan provides a framework for combining politics with sound science – that’s necessary for effective environmental policies</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Karl et al 07</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Harman A. Karl, U.S. Geological Survey scientist.Lawrence E. Susskind, Ford Professor of Urban and Environmental Planning at MIT, and Katherine H. Wallace, enrolled in the Master of City Planning program in MIT’s Department of Urban Studies and Planning and is a MUSIC intern. “A Dialogue, not a Diatribe.” Environment, 49:1, pp. 20-34. January/February 2007. [[http://web.mit.edu/dusp/epp/music/pdf/ENV_JF07_JFFarticle.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Because of the ever-increasing stress put on the environment by human activity,</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> in value-laden decisions and contributes to stable and effective public policy.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> That’s key to resolve and maintain complex ecosystems and the environment</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Susskind and Karl 08</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">[Harman A. Karl, U.S. Geological Survey scientist. Lawrence E. Susskind, Ford Professor of Urban and Environmental Planning at MIT. “Balancing Science and Politics in Environmental Decision-Making: A New Role for Science Impact Coordinators.” 8/29/2008 (Last Modified). [[http://web.mit.edu/dusp/epp/music/pdf/SIC_Paper_FINAL.pdf]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> It is essential that we find a better way to balance science and politics in</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Such political manipulation generates long-term stalemates when timely action is required.</span>

=Foreign Tax on Oil CP= 
==1NC Generic== 
**Text: The United States federal government should levy a tax on all foreign oil imports to fund [insert the plan].**

**CP solves**
**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Pope '11 </span>**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Carl, Chairman of the Sierra Club, “To Fix America, Tax Foreigners” 8/4, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/carl-pope/to-fix-america-tax-foreig_b_917773.html]]) </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In my previous post, on why the deficit deal won't last, I referred </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">over to repair our conventional roads, bridges, and other transportation infrastructure.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]