[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
===Icebreakers- Plan Text=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its icebreaking operations for the creation of waterways in the United States.
===Contention One- Presence=== 


Arctic war coming __[[#|now]]__ - multiple nations are involved
Rosenthal 9/18 (Elisabeth- NYT staff writer/contributor, “Race Is On as Ice Melt Reveals Arctic Treasures”, http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/19/science/earth/arctic-resources-exposed-by-warming-set-off-competition.html?pagewanted=all)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">NUUK, Greenland — With Arctic ice melting at record pace, the world’s superpowers are increasingly jockeying for political influence and economic position in outposts like this one, previously regarded as barren wastelands.¶ At stake are the Arctic’s abundant supplies of oil, gas and minerals that are, thanks to climate change, becoming newly accessible along with increasingly navigable polar shipping shortcuts. This year, China has become a far more aggressive player in this frigid field, experts say, provoking alarm among Western powers.¶ While the United States, Russia and several nations of the European Union have Arctic territory, China has none, and as a result, has been deploying its wealth and diplomatic clout to secure toeholds in the __[[#|region]]__.¶ “The Arctic has risen rapidly on China’s foreign policy agenda in the past two years,” said Linda Jakobson, East Asia program director at the Lowy Institute for International Policy in Sydney, Australia. So, she said, the Chinese are exploring “how they could get involved.”¶ In August, China sent its first ship across the Arctic to Europe and it is lobbying intensely for permanent observer status on the Arctic Council, the loose international body of eight Arctic nations that develops policy for the region, arguing that it is a “near Arctic state” and proclaiming that the Arctic is “the inherited wealth of all humankind,” in the words of China’s State Oceanic Administration.¶ To promote the council bid and improve relations with Arctic nations, its ministers visited Denmark, Sweden and Iceland this summer, offering lucrative trade deals. High-level diplomats have also visited Greenland, where Chinese companies are __[[#|investing]]__ in a developing mining industry, with proposals to import Chinese work crews for construction.¶ Western nations have been particularly anxious about Chinese overtures to this poor and sparsely populated island, a self-governing state within the Kingdom of Denmark, because the retreat of its ice cap has unveiled coveted __[[#|mineral deposits]]__, including rare earth metals that are crucial for new technologies like cellphones and military guidance systems. A European Union vice president, Antonio Tajani, rushed here to Greenland’s capital in June, offering hundreds of millions in development aid in exchange for guarantees that Greenland would not give China exclusive access to its rare earth metals, calling his trip “raw mineral diplomacy.”¶ Greenland is close to North America, and home to the United States Air Force’s northernmost base in Thule. At a conference last month, Thomas R. Nides, deputy secretary of state for management and resources, said the Arctic was becoming “a new frontier in our foreign policy.”¶ In the past 18 months, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Lee Myung-bak of South Korea have made debut visits here, and Greenland’s prime minister, Kuupik Kleist, was welcomed by President José Manuel Barroso of the European Commission in Brussels.¶ “We are treated so differently than just a few years ago,” said Jens B. Frederiksen, Greenland’s vice premier, in his simple office here. “We are aware that is because we __[[#|now]]__ have something to offer, not because they’ve suddenly discovered that Inuit are nice people.”¶ Chinese activity in the Arctic to some extent mirrors that of other non-Arctic countries, as the region warms.¶ The European Union, Japan and South Korea have also applied in the last three years for permanent observer status at the Arctic Council, which would allow them to present their perspective, but not vote.¶ This once-obscure body, previously focused on issues like monitoring Arctic animal populations, now has more substantive tasks, like defining future port fees and negotiating agreements on oil spill remediation. “We’ve changed from a forum to a decision-making body,” said Gustaf Lind, Arctic ambassador from Sweden and the council’s current chairman.¶ But China sees its inclusion “as imperative so that it won’t be shut out from decisions on minerals and shipping,” said Dr. Jakobson, who is also an Arctic researcher at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. China’s economy is heavily dependent on exports, and the polar route saves time, distance and money to and from elsewhere in Asia and Europe, compared with traversing the Suez Canal.¶ So far there has been little actual exploitation of Arctic resources. Greenland has only one working mine, though more than 100 new sites are being mapped out. Here, as well as in Alaska, Canada and Norway, oil and gas companies are still largely exploring, although experts estimate that more than 20 percent of the world’s oil and gas reserves are in the Arctic. Warmer weather has already extended the work season by a month in many locations, making access easier.¶ At one point this summer, 97 percent of the surface of Greenland’s massive ice sheet was melting. At current rates, Arctic waters could be ice-free in summer by the end of the decade, scientists say.¶ “Things are happening much faster than what any scientific model predicted,” said Dr. Morten Rasch, who runs the Greenland Ecosystem Monitoring program at Aarhus University in Denmark.¶ Ownership of the Arctic is governed by the United Nations Convention of the Law of the Sea, which gives Arctic nations an exclusive economic zone that extends 200 nautical miles from land, and to undersea resources farther away so long as they are on a continental shelf. The far northern Arctic Ocean belongs to no country, and conditions there are severe. In a place where exact boundaries were never much of a concern, haggling over borders has begun among the primary nations — between Canada and Denmark, and the United States and Canada, for example.¶ The United States has been hampered in the current jockeying because the Senate has refused to ratify the Convention of the Law of the Sea, even though both the Bush and Obama administrations have strongly supported doing so. This means the United States has not been able to formally stake out its underwater boundaries. “We are being left behind,” Deputy Secretary Nides said.¶ But experts say boundary disputes are likely to be rapidly resolved through negotiation, so that everyone can get on with the business of making money. There is “very little room for a race to grab territory, since most of the resources are in an area that is clearly carved up already,” said Kristofer Bergh, a researcher at the Stockholm Institute.¶ Even so, Arctic nations and NATO are building up military capabilities in the region, as a precaution. That has left China with little choice but to garner influence through a strategy that has worked well in Africa and Latin America: investing and joining with local companies and financing good works to earn good will. Its scientists have become pillars of multinational Arctic research, and their icebreaker has been used in joint expeditions.¶ And Chinese companies, some with close government ties, are investing heavily across the Arctic. In Canada, Chinese firms have acquired interests in two oil companies that could afford them access to Arctic drilling. During a June visit to Iceland, Premier Wen Jiabao of China signed a number of economic agreements, covering areas like geothermal energy and free trade.¶ In Greenland, large Chinese companies are financing the development of mines that are being developed around discoveries of gems or minerals by small prospecting companies, said Soren Meisling, head of the China desk at the Bech Bruun law firm in Copenhagen, which represents many of them. A huge iron ore mine under development near Nuuk, for example, is owned by a British company but financed in part by a Chinese steel maker.¶ Chinese mining companies have proved adept at working in challenging locales and have even proposed building runways for jumbo jets on the ice in Greenland’s far north to fly out minerals until the ice melts enough for shipping.¶ “There is already a sense of competition in the Arctic, and they think they can have first advantage,” said Jingjing Su, a lawyer in Bech Bruun’s China practice.¶ The efforts have clear political backing. Greenland’s minister for industry and mineral resources was greeted by Vice Premier Li Keqiang in China last November. A few months later, China’s minister of land and resources, Xu Shaoshi, traveled to Greenland to sign cooperation agreements.¶ Western analysts have worried that China could leverage its wealth, particularly in some of the cash-poor corners of the Arctic like Greenland and Iceland.</span>

The Coast Guard is increasing Arctic presence through “Arctic Shield” – more icebreakers are key to its effectiveness
Slattery 10/26 (Brian Slattery- Research Assistant, Defense Studies Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, 10/26/2012, “Arctic Shield: Coast Guard Looking North”, http://blog.heritage.org/2012/10/26/arctic-shield-coast-guard-looking-north/”)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The Arctic has become a hotbed of interest in recent years. The Coast Guard has recognized this trend and is pursuing more presence in the region, but will its resources be able to keep up with rapidly increasing traffic? Rear Admiral Thomas P. Ostebo, commander of the 17th District of the U.S. Coast Guard, recently testified before Congress during a field hearing about Arctic issues and the sea service’s exercise “Arctic Shield 2012.” Ostebo explained the purpose of the exercise, the lessons learned, and what new assets and capabilities they brought to the region. While the exercise is considered a success, the Coast Guard requires more resources to make these capabilities a reality. Notably at Arctic Shield, the Coast Guard stationed two helicopters in Barrow, Alaska (the northernmost point in the U.S.), to afford the sea service increased presence, situational awareness, and reach within the Arctic Circle. The USCGC Bertholf, the first-in-class of the National Security Cutter (NSC) fleet, also deployed to the region, marking an important milestone for a cutter class intended to provide increased range and presence farther from the coast. Both of these firsts indicate that the Coast Guard is aware of growing interests in the Arctic for natural resources such as hydrocarbons and fisheries, expanding sea lanes, and tourism. In spite of Arctic Shield’s success, the Coast Guard may have trouble keeping up with real-world increased traffic in northern U.S. waters while executing its various other missions. The sea service has already been operating with old and overused equipment, particularly in its High Endurance Cutter fleet. The Hamilton-class fleet has been sailing since the 1960s and has extended well beyond its intended service life. The NSC, intended to replace this fleet, has been cut from a requirement of 16 vessels to just eight. Sadly, the Coast Guard is having trouble meeting even that reduced requirement. The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) fiscal year 2013 budget request removes advanced funding for the seventh and eighth planned NSCs, which would effectively eliminate their production. No justification has been offered by the Coast Guard or DHS as to how this will affect Coast Guard missions and maritime security. Also critical to missions in the Arctic is America’s icebreaking capability. Regrettably, this is one capability that is more lacking than even the High Endurance Cutter fleet. The U.S. Coast Guard has two heavy-duty icebreakers, neither of which is currently operational. One is set to be revitalized, but this will be costly and add only a few years to the vessel’s service life. A new heavy-duty icebreaker would cost nearly a billion dollars and take a decade to build. Considering that the Coast Guard’s total recapitalization budget for fiscal year 2013 is $1.2 billion, it would be difficult to afford much else if the sea service wishes to buy a new icebreaker, even over 10 years. Moreover, what will be covering Arctic waters during the decade that the vessel is being built? The U.S. should instead pursue leasing commercial icebreakers that can serve Coast Guard missions when necessary. This will be cost effective and provide presence more immediately. Representative Frank LoBiondo (R–NJ), chairman of the House Coast Guard and Maritime Transportation Subcommittee, has claimed that the Coast Guard is caught in a “death spiral” because growing missions are dramatically outpacing fleet modernization and replacement. His colleagues in the House and Senate should recognize the critical security America gains from the Coast Guard and provide adequate funding for the sea service to perform its missions.</span>

Lack of effective presence makes Russian resource and territorial grabs inevitable- it also undermines cooperation
Dowd 11 – MA from Indiana University, Senior Fellow of the Fraser Institute
Alan, “The Big Chill: Energy Needs Fueling Tensions in the Arctic,” https://www.fraserinstitute.org/research-news/news/display.aspx?id=2147483979
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">One reason a military presence will be necessary is the possibility of accidents caused by drilling and shipping. In addition, competition for Arctic resources could lead to confrontation. Adm. James Stavridis, who serves as NATO’s military commander, concedes that the Arctic could become “a zone of conflict” (UPI).¶ To brace for that possibility and thwart Russia’s Arctic fait accompli, the United States, Canada, Denmark and Norway—all NATO members and Arctic nations—should follow the Cold War playbook: build up the assets needed to defend their interests, use those assets to deter aggression, and deal with Moscow from a posture of strength and unity.¶ The challenge is to remain open to cooperation while bracing for worst-case scenarios. After all, Russia is not the Soviet Union. Even as Putin and his puppets make mischief, Moscow is open to making deals. Russia and Norway, for instance, recently resolved a long-running boundary dispute, paving the way for development in 67,000 square-miles of the Arctic. Moreover, the U.S., Russia, Canada, Denmark and Norway have agreed on Arctic search-and-rescue responsibilities (Cummins).¶ In a world of increasingly integrated markets, we know there is much to gain from Arctic cooperation and much to lose from protracted military standoff. But we also know that dealing naively with Moscow carries a heavy cost—and that integration is a two-way street. ¶ “Russian leaders today yearn not for integration,” the Brookings Institution’s Robert Kagan concludes, “but for a return to a special Russian greatness.” ¶ In short, Russia is more interested in recreating the autarky of some bygone era than in the shared benefits of globalization. ¶ Framework for Partnership¶ Dealing with Russia is about power. As Churchill once said of his Russian counterparts, “There is nothing they admire so much as strength, and there is nothing for which they have less respect than for weakness.”¶ When the message is clear—or “hard and consistent,” to use Putin’s language—Russia will take a cooperative posture. When the message is unclear, Russia will take what it can get. ¶ Just consider Russia’s contrasting treatment of its neighbors: Moscow blusters about Poland and the Baltic states but keeps its hands off, largely because they are protected by the U.S.-NATO umbrella. Conversely, Russia bullies Ukraine, garrisons its troops—uninvited—in Moldova, and occupies Georgian territory. The common denominator of these unfortunate countries: They have no U.S. security guarantee. ¶ Russia should be given an opportunity to participate as a responsible partner in Arctic development. But if Russia continues to take Putin’s hard line, the U.S. and its allies are left with few other options than standing together or allowing Russia to divide and conquer. ¶ To avoid that, the allies may need to agree among themselves on lines of demarcation, transit routes and exploration rights—and then pool their resources to protect their shared interests. ¶ This will require investment in Arctic capabilities. For instance, the U.S. has only three polar icebreakers, two of which have exceeded their projected 30-year lifespan (O’Rourke). Russia can deploy 20 icebreakers. ¶ “We have extremely limited Arctic response capabilities,” explains Adm. Robert Papp, USCG commandant. Noting that the Coast Guard has “the lead role in ensuring Arctic maritime safety, security and stewardship,” Papp urges Congress “to start building infrastructure up there” (Joling and Papp).¶ Washington’s defense cuts will only exacerbate these gaps, especially as Russia’s oil-aided boom enables it to retool its armed forces. Investing just 1.1 percent of its GDP on defense, Canada faces even greater challenges in defending its Arctic interests. ¶ But if the allies can combine their Arctic capabilities—each filling a niche role—and agree on a common approach to Arctic security, the framework to put those capabilities into practice is arguably already in place. ¶ Jointly operated by the U.S. and Canada, NORAD could serve as the model for an Arctic security partnership. Just as NORAD defends North American airspace, an allied maritime arrangement under the NORAD rubric could provide for security in Arctic waters. ¶ It’s worth noting that maritime surveillance was added to NORAD’s responsibilities in 2006. And in 2011, the Pentagon shifted responsibility for most Arctic operations to Northern Command (NORTHCOM), headed up by the same person who commands NORAD (Elliot). ¶ Preparing¶ Bracing for military eventualities in the Arctic is not armchair alarmism. ¶ In fact, Gen. Gene Renuart, former NORTHCOM commander, reported in 2008 that U.S. officials were beginning to explore ways to “posture NORAD…to provide the right kind of search and rescue, military response, if need be, and certainly security for whatever activities occur in the Arctic.”¶ “In order to ensure a peaceful opening of the Arctic,” adds Adm. James Winnefeld, current NORTHCOM commander, “DOD must anticipate today the Arctic operations that will be expected of it tomorrow.”¶ In other words, the goal in preparing for worst-case scenarios and shoring up allied resolve in the Arctic is not to trigger a military confrontation, but to prevent one.</span>

That escalates to nuclear war

Staples 09 (Steven, August 10, - Rideau Institute, Steps toward an arctic nuclear weapon free zone, p. 5-6)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The fact is, the Arctic is becoming an zone of increased military competition. Russian President Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims. Russian General Vladimir Shamanov declared that Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.” This week, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years.6 In January, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. As Michael Hamel-Greene has pointed out, it affirmed as a priority to preserve U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic. The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar in Eastern Europe, has greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep water port. Denmark last week released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with ship-based helicopters able to drop troops anywhere. Danish fighter planes could be patrolling Greenlandic airspace. Last year, Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs. The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved. Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN Under-Secretary for Disarmament Affairs, summarizes the situation bluntly. He warns us that “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that two nuclear weapon states – the United States and the Russian Federation, which together own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on the Arctic and have competing claims. These claims, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – could, if unresolved, lead to conflict escalating into the threat or use of nuclear weapons.”</span>

A hardline approach is necessary to prevent conflict escalation, miscalculation, and great power war- newest and most complex models prove
Murray 12 (Professor of Political Science @ Alberta

Robert, “Arctic politics in the emerging multipolar system: challenges and consequences,” The Polar Journal, 2.1, 4 pt font is for long passages without relevant information)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">It is no overstatement to say that the end of the Cold War was one of the most important events in recent world history. Scholars from many areas of study have used the fall of the Soviet Union as a starting point to explain shifts in security, globalization, humanitarianism and institutional integration, all of which played important roles in world affairs in the immediate post-Cold War era. Since 1991, explanatory models for international and global politics have broadened their scope to include variables such as individual preferences, capitalist oppression, ideational construction, environmentalism, gender and sexual politics, and discursive power to levels previously unforeseen throughout the Cold War years. As such, we now see the world as a far more complex and nefarious arena in which power and dominance are exercised each day. At the systemic level, the fall of the Soviet Union equated to nothing short of a monumental shift in the way states would make foreign and defence strategy. For 50 years, the bipolar system was dominated by two superpowers constantly competing and building arms in an effort to balance one another. The end of the Cold War signalled a major shift in systemic arrangement, as the system went from being bipolar to the world entering what was often referred to as the “unipolar moment.”1 The era of unipolarity and American hegemony in the international system has been marked by stability in an interstate sense, and the realignment of various spheres of influence in the wake of the Soviet Union’s demise. Far from being just a theoretical notion, the unipolar moment has also provided states with an environment in which to pursue their national self-interest where the likelihood of conflict is decreased and great power security competition has been minimized.2 As such, new areas of foreign affairs and defence strategy have become far more important than they could have been throughout the bipolar con- strained Cold War years. One of the most notable examples in this regard has been the increased desire for territorial protection and extension in the Arctic region. In an era of state preoccupation with humanitarianism, terrorism and economic reces- sion, it is being suggested by some observers that the Arctic has become the primary stage through which states, both great and minor in power, can pursue their self-interest in a way that combines soft power cooperation through bodies of gov- ernance with hard power and military build-up. As things presently stand, there are a variety of nations and institutions all seek- ing to claim governing authority over different parts of the circumpolar region. Nations making claims to parts of the Arctic Ocean or other northern waters include Canada, Russia, the United States, Norway, Iceland and Denmark/Greenland. On the institutional side, Arctic governance has been debated and defined by bodies such as the United Nations, the European Union, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and the Arctic Council.3 To date, no clear resolution to competing claims is in sight, and in some cases the situation is on the verge of becoming far more competitive as nations such as Russia have resorted to asserting possible military solutions to contested Arctic issues to bolster their declarations. It is important to note the increased levels of interest over Arctic relations between states, but, on this point, little attention has been given to the influence of the international system over this situation. If the unipolar moment has been defined as an era of relative stability and diplomatic coexistence, and tensions in the Arctic are already on the rise, what is to happen when the multipolar system finally emerges in the near future? Since 2005, the status of the United States as systemic hegemon has been in decline due to economic, military and political strains placed on American power capabilities throughout the Bush era and beyond. This decrease in relative power preponderance has been even further exacerbated by the economic recession starting in 2008 and the nation’s inability to stabilize its markets. As such, the predictions of those like Christopher Layne and John Mearsheimer are on the verge of coming to fruition, in that the unipolar moment is about to end.4 New great powers are ris- ing, the United States is no longer able to prevent these nations from balancing their power, and the once obvious prevalence of American power is far murkier than it was a decade ago. As the multipolar era becomes increasingly likely, one must ponder the effects this shift might have on state foreign and defence strategy- making, especially towards the Arctic region. To date, though its relative power position has declined significantly in recent years, the United States remains the hegemon of the international system, but it is contended here that such status is soon to evaporate. In this context, this article argues that the emergence of a multipolar systemic arrangement is very likely to increase security competition in the system as a whole, and the Arctic will be at the epicentre of such conflict. To lend support to this hypothesis, an examination of the impending shift from unipolarity to multipolarity will be made, as will an account of current security dynamics in the circumpolar region. The article concludes with a stark warning that without some kind of real action towards settling competing Arctic claims, it will beleft to states to secure their own territorial assertions through hard power and forceful means. The system is unipolar ... for now In order to evaluate the polarity of the international system in a given historical period, one must identify the hierarchy of power in terms of the number of super or great powers dominating international outcomes. Counting great or super powers can be somewhat difficult in contemporary international relations, as scholars have begun to expand the notions of power and capabilities, but the clearest guideline for being able to identify great powers is through determining capabilities. The rea- son it is essential to understand the great powers in international relations is that they, above all other states, institutions, non-state actors and ideational forces, are responsible for the daily conduct of behaviour in the international system, and they have been historically accountable for substantial alterations to power distribution since the 1648 Peace of Westphalia. Measuring capabilities allows observers to explain which states are most likely to affect the behaviour of other states, to use force or violence; also, the number of great powers in a given era determines how stable or unstable the international system will be. Identifying great powers is literally done by evaluating each state’s capabilities in essential areas of political life that can maximize security or extend one’s power. When discussing the distribution of power across states, there is a clear hierarchy of capabilities among states that leads observers to classify these utility maximizing, rational actors as super, great, major, middle or minor powers in the international system. In terms of actual measurement, Kenneth Waltz argues: “Their rank depends on how they score on all of the following items: size of population and territory, resource endowment, economic capability, military strength, political stability and competence.”5 Once these various factors are taken into account, one can clearly determine the given polarity of the system at a given moment in history. Why is polarity important? According to structural realist theory, the number of great powers in the system determines how conflictual, violent or stable interna- tional politics will be. While the overall structure of the system remains anarchic, meaning a clear absence of a governing authority above states that can control their actions, there can be consequential variations within the anarchic structure that can impact how states will evaluate their foreign and defence policy strategies and affect their overall behaviour. Waltz claims that “ ‘consequential’ variations in number are changes of number that lead to different expectations about the effect of structure on units.”6 There are three types of structure within the system that have been determined throughout the history of the modern state system – unipolarity, bipolar- ity and multipolarity. The consequential variations described by Waltz take place when great powers either rise or fall, and induce shifts from one type of polarity to another. The rise and fall of great powers is perhaps the most important explanatory aspect of international politics because it is these states that “inherently possess some offensive military capability, which gives them the wherewithal to hurt and possibly destroy each other.”7 Though the primary motivation for all states is secu- rity maximization, great powers become the most important actors because while they are capable of defending themselves, they also have the ability to extend their sphere of influence in offensive posturing. It is in this context that the polarity of the system becomes even more vital, in that the more great powers there are, the greater likelihood ofviolence and conflict there is. In each systemic arrangement, the abilities of great powers to pursue their ultimate goal, which is hegemony, dic- tates whether foreign and defence policy strategies will be overtly defensive or potentially offensive. All states are like-units, in that they all strive for survival by making rational calculations about how to best pursue their interests in an anarchic system. Of course, strategies of states will differ greatly based on the distribution of power, meaning that great powers are able to pursue their goals more freely than minor powers because they can operate without allies or institutions in achieving their goals. Lesser powers, however, typically try to increase their power position in world affairs through various alliance blocs and institutional binding. In doing so, it is hoped that middle and minor powers are able to guarantee their survival by align- ing themselves with powers larger than themselves. Given the arrangement of the system, the number of alliances or blocs of power will differ, which also contributes to just how stable or violent the system will be. Conflict, or the possibility of it, is a constant problem in international relations due to the anarchic structure of the international system. Anarchy, by its definition, denotes a lack of overarching authority and thus states, especially the most powerful states, are able to behave as they would like, without any external body capable of controlling their actions. Robert Art and Robert Jervis aptly define anarchy by argu- ing: “States can make commitments and treaties, but no sovereign power ensures compliance and punished deviation. This – the absence of a supreme power – is what is meant by the anarchic environment of international politics.”8 In anarchy, just as in the state of nature or war prior to the establishment of civilized human society, there is no harmony and actors are left to their own inclinations to pursue their self-interest. The key elements of anarchy that precipitate conflict are the con- stant distrust of others’ motives, the assumption that other actors may not be as rational as oneself, and, as Waltz notes, “a state will use force to attain its goals if, after assessing the prospects for success, it values those goals more than it values the pleasures of peace.”9 The constant tensions between states, and the ability of great powers to more freely pursue their national interests, contributes to a system where security and survival are at a premium, and the polarity of the system matters to all states. By definition, bipolar systems are the most stable. According to Mearsheimer, this assumption is made based on three criteria: First, the number of conflict dyads is fewer, leaving fewer possibilities for war. Sec- ond, deterrence is easier, because imbalances of power are fewer and more easily averted. Third, the prospects for deterrence are greater because miscalculations of rela- tive power and opponents’ resolve are fewer and less likely.10 By contrast, multipolar systems have a far greater probability of conflict, tension and distrust among states. War is far more likely in multipolar systems because major power dyads are more numerous, each posing the potential for conflict. Conflict could also erupt across dyads involving major and minor powers. Dyads between minor powers could also lead to war [...]. Wars in a multipolar world involving just minor powers or only one major power are not likely to be as devastating as a conflict between two major powers. However, local wars tend to widen and escalate. Hence there is always a chance that a small war will trigger a general conflict.11 While bipolarity is considered to be the most stable arrangement, and multipolarity the least stable, there is also the rare time when the system is unipolar in character. Put simply, unipolarity occurs when there is such a preponderance of power by one state that others are incapable of balancing against it. According to William Wohl- forth, unipolarity is also a stable and peaceful arrangement: unipolarity favors the absence of war among the great powers and comparatively low levels of competition for prestige or security for two reasons: the leading state’s power advantage removes the problem of hegemonic rivalry from world politics, and it reduces the salience and stakes of balance-of-power politics among the major states.12 The status of the hegemonic power in a unipolar system allows for the expansion of its normative agenda, but also allows it to pacify internationalaffairs because it lacks both a hegemonic rival and the effects of balance of power politics.13 As such, unipolar systems can be stable, depending on whom the hegemon is and what its vision for dominance might be. Since the end of World War II, only two types of polarity have been seen. Between 1945 and 1991, the system was bipolar, in that there were only two super- powers dominating the affairs of international politics. This bipolar arrangement was surprisingly stable and though smaller proxy wars erupted throughout the years of the Cold War, the relations between the two dominant powers, namely the United States and the Soviet Union, never came to a head. There are various explanations for why this was the case, but John Mearsheimer provides perhaps the most concise and accurate explanations as he contends that the absence of war in Europe and beyond throughout the Cold War can be attributed to three specific factors: the bipolar distribution of military power on the [European] Continent; the rough mili- tary equality between the two states comprising the two poles in Europe, the United States and the Soviet Union; and the fact that each superpower was armed with a large nuclear arsenal.14 At the conclusion of the Cold War, there was a clear and major shift in the distribution of power in the system, which translated into the unipolar moment. With the fall of the Soviet Union, the United States retained its superpower status and held a preponderance of power in virtually all areas of capabilities measurement. Christopher Layne contends that American hegemony is contingent upon two factors: First, the United States enjoys a commanding preeminence in both military and eco- nomic power. Second, since the Soviet Union’s disappearance, no other great power has emerged to challenge US preponderance. In this sense, US hegemony is the result of objective material conditions.15 Throughout the Clinton and early years of the Bush administrations, the role of the United States as systemic hegemon was virtually unquestioned, and it seemed as if American hegemony could last for a very long time. It was not until the latter years of the Bush administration that the waning of American hegemony began to become apparent. One of the key reasons the system remains unipolar is that there has yet to be a state that can balance against US power in either the hard or soft power senses. That said, the main reason for the decline in American hegemony has been a costly set of irrational and ill-advised foreign policy decisions, combined with years of economic overvaluation that eroded the hegemonic position of the world’s lone superpower.16 Both the intervention into Iraq, starting in 2003, and the fallout of the 2008 recession have served to substantially weaken the United States in both the hard and soft power contexts, and thus it is clear that a multipolar system is on the horizon. As Layne notes, “although a new geopolitical balance has yet to emerge, there is considerable evidence that other states have been engaging in bal- ancing against the United States – including hard balancing.”17 Theemerging great powers, especially China and Russia, will have a profound impact on the conduct of international relations in the years to come. Perhaps the most important area of security competition that has gone under- scrutinized from a systemic standpoint is the increased level of interest in the Arctic. Currently, the competing claims for the circumpolar region are mostly peaceful and focusing on diplomatic and legal battles, but recent trends suggest that non-violent strategy may not continue. As the era of American hegemony comes to an end, and a multipolar system begins to emerge, the impact on the Arctic region is likely to beprofound due to the militaristic nature of state security strategies, unpredictability and a potential retreat from cooperationnormally seen in multipolar structures. The Arctic in the unipolar moment One of the cornerstones of America’s unipolar moment has been the remarkable decline in interstate conflict. Since the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991, the interna- tional system has not been on the verge of any major war, nor have great powers aggressively pursued policies that would balance against American power in a way that would be taken seriously. According to many scholarly studies, the world since the end of the Cold War has become far more secure in the interstate sense, and security and defence policies of states are now preoccupied more with human- centric and intrastate variables than anything else. Though it is difficult to deny that the world has become more stable at the systemic level, the role of hard power and military capabilities did not disappear with the Soviet Union; instead, the use of militarism to achieve national goals in the unipolar moment greatly decreased as a direct result of the values and grand strategy of the United States. The impact of a unipolar systemic arrangement on state behaviour is best explained by the hegemonic stability theory.18 According to this theory, a unipolar structure is able to pacify the relations of states because there is recognition of the hegemon’s ability to control or intervene in conflicts that may threaten its power, or the order of the system. Wohlforth summarizes the basic precept of hegemonic stability theory by contending: The theory stipulates that especially powerful states (“hegemons”) foster international orders that are stable until differential growth in power produces a dissatisfied state with the capability to challenge the dominant state for leadership. The clearer and lar- ger the concentration of power in the leading state, the more peaceful the international order associated with it will be [...] If the system is unipolar, the great power hierar- chy should be much more stable than any hierarchy lodged within a system of more than one pole. Because unipolarity is based on a historically unprecedented concentra- tion of power in the United States, a potentially important source of great power con- flict – hegemonic rivalry – will be missing.19 It is essential to note two things about the status of the United States as systemic hegemon throughout the immediate post-Cold War era – first, that its preponderance of power in every area of capability measurement created a stable and less tense system in which states were able to interact; and second, that the United States’ time as hegemon has fostered the growth of multilateral institutions and agreements rather than a bullying type of unipolarity.20 From a systemic standpoint, it would seem that there is little reason to be concerned about military aggression, arms racing and distrustful competition in the modern system, but one vital concern to note is that much of the unipolar and hegeomic stability literature completely ignores the role of the Arctic in state security calculations. Throughout an era of institutional binding, regional integra- tion, humanitarianism and soft power growth, the competition for the Arctic was following much of the same pattern, with states preferring to make their claims in institutional or legal settings. Yet, as the unipolar moment has started to decline, and multipolarity is on the horizon, the competition in the circumpolar region has taken on a very different tone. Competing claims over Arctic territories, such as the Northwest Passage, Beaufort Sea and other maritime boundaries, and the use of the region as a space for military exercises are by no means new and they have not come to the forefront of the strategic security agendas of states since the post-9/11 era. Rather, throughout the Cold War, the Arctic was a realm of constant supervision, not because either superpower wanted to develop the region, but more because of the mutual fear each side had of offensive attacks being launched over the pole. Even throughout the unipolar moment, the Arctic has been a space for sovereignty competition, but the nature of the competition had been mostly legal, institutional or soft power focused.21 Worth noting as well is the very complex nature of reasons for state interests in the Arctic. Mark Nuttall effectively summarizes the complexities of the high north as he claims: In the post-Cold War world [the Arctic] is seen as a natural scientific laboratory, under- stood as a homeland for indigenous peoples, a place of sovereignty conflicts, an emerg- ing hydrocarbon province with which the world is coming to think of as one of the last major frontiers for oil and gas, and a region of dramatic environmental change.22 Though the intricacies of Arctic competition are intriguing to note, it is how states are strategically asserting their claims that is of particular importance. The start of America’s hegemonic decline has allowed states to revisit their approaches to the Arctic as nations jockey for position by balancing or rivalling American preferences. As a result, the nature of Arctic competition has incorporated both soft power and hard power elements. Further, the nature of militarism and hard power tension has increased due to the recent spending and strategic shifts by many Arctic states in recent years, including Canada, Norway, Sweden and Russia.23 The reasons for America’s decline are relatively unsurprising – military overextension in Afghanistan and Iraq; the lack of international support for American foreign policy objectives throughout the Bush era; the 2008 economic recession; and the utter dis- trust by most states, including close American allies, of the United States’ political objectives.24 The system remains unipolar, of course, but as stated above, the pre- ponderance of power capabilities hassubstantially diminished, opening the door for others to balance and rival American power in the coming years. Coincidentally, it has also been the revelations of science in recent years that have also promoted a faster pace for those states making Arctic claims. The role of climate change and its impact over the Arctic has allowed for states to more freely move into the region and pursue strategies previously unavailable.25 According to Lotta Numminen, climate change has recently affected states’ perceptions of the possible economic opportunities in the Arctic in four ways: first, that the subsurface of the Arctic Ocean floor is assumed to contain substantial oil and gas reserves, to which there will be increased access; second, that melting waters will provide new waters for international fisheries; third, the increase in research strategies; and fourth, is the greater access to sea passages.26 One of the main reasons states see the Arctic region as such a lucrative area is the potential for increasing their respec- tive economic and natural resource capabilities. Previously, the northern ice caps prevented states from entering most of the Arctic Ocean and surrounding areas, but as these environmental situations change, states have readily identified the high north as a priority in both their security and economic strategies. Among the main reasons the Arctic has not been more readily seen as a poten- tial area for security competition and conflict is the interpretation that the United States has little or no interest in the circumpolar region at all. According to Stephen Brooks and William Wohlforth, American hegemony throughout the post-Cold War era was seen as passive, stable and enduring because of the lack of counterpower being demonstrated in the system: Bounded by oceans to the east and west and weak, friendly powers to the north and south, the United States is both less vulnerable than previous aspiring hegemons and also less threatening to others. The main potential challengers to its unipolarity, mean- while – China, Russia, Japan, and Germany – are in the opposite position. They can- not augment their military capabilities so as to balance the United States without simultaneously becoming an immediate threat to their neighbors. Politics, even interna- tional politics, is local. Although American power attracts a lot of attention globally, states are usually more concerned with their own neighborhoods than with the global equilibrium. Were any of the potential challengers to make a serious run at the United States, regional balancing efforts would almost certainly help contain them, as would the massive latent power capabilities of the United States, which could be mobilized as necessary to head off an emerging threat.27 Almost completely omitted from such interpretations, however, are America’s north- ern borders over Alaska and into the Arctic. Latitudinal thinking would seem to indicate that Brooks and Wohlforth are correct in terms of America’s interests in many areas of the globe, but this ignores what has been happening at the top of the world in the high north. It is not as if the United States has been ignorant of its own decline in power, especially regarding the Arctic. In 2009, the United States issued National Security Presidential Directive 66 and Homeland Security Presidential Directive 25 that deal exclusively with American Arctic policy. According to these directives, the altera- tions to national policies of other states regarding the Arctic compelled the United States to clearly outline the security and development strategies they would use to protect its Arctic interests. Among the first, and most clear, elements of the direc- tives is the clear intention of the United States to defend their national security interests. According to Article III, subsection B 1 of the directives: The United States has broad and fundamental national security interests in the Arctic region and is prepared to operate either independently or in conjunction with other states to safeguard these interests. These interests include suchmatters as missile defense and early warning; deployment ofsea and air systems for strategic sealift, strategic deterrence, maritime presence, and maritime security operations; and ensuring freedom of navigation and overflight.28 The contemporary changes to the international system as the era of American hegemony has begun to wane, the effects of climate change and greater access, and the increasingly militaristic strategies of most every Arctic state have led to a situation where tensions are at an all time high, and that legal or institutional processes are unlikely to resolve anything amicably. As the system continues its transition away from unipolarity, observers are left to ponder what might come next after an era of relative interstate stability. Multipolarity and the circumpolar In their 2002 article on the nature of United States primacy and the enduring aspects of American hegemony, Brooks and Wohlforth argue that the United States would have to act as a benevolent hegemon in order to prevent counterbalancing and to be able to build effective regimes worldwide. They argue: Magnanimity and restraint in the face of temptation are tenets of successful statecraft that have proved their worth from classical Greece onward. Standing taller than lead- ing states of the past, the United States has unprecedented freedom to do as it pleases. It can play the game for itself alone or for the system as a whole; it can focus on small returns today or larger ones tomorrow. If the administration truly wants to be loved as well as feared, the policy answers are not hard to find.29 The problem with such analyses of American hegemony is that the Bush administration chose to ignore utterly such warnings and, rather than acting mag- nanimously, post-9/11 American foreign policy did precisely what it should not have. Pre-emption, coercion and irrational interventions, combined with a major economic recession, all serve to explain why American hegemony began to decline by 2005 in terms of both actual power levels and perceptions of legitimate hege- monic status.30 The clearest sign that American exceptionalism has been decreasing is the aggressive and regional balancing dynamics taking place between states in the Arctic region. Security strategy in the circumpolar region has altered dramatically since 2005, with more states showing interest, hard power spending increasing, and legal pro- cesses being coupled by at times overtly offensive strategy.31 Russia, Canada and a number of European states, especially Norway and Sweden, exemplify this line of argument about how sovereignty claims have become focused on traditional inter- state arms racing and militarism while soft power components, like governance structures and legal processes, continually evolve.32 As mentioned previously, even the United States has woken up to see that, as their hegemony declines, other states have begun to balance against them in the Arctic, thus provoking the 2009 Presi- dential Directives. Even so, Arctic interested nations have not yielded to American claims, nor has there been any evidence of America’s closest allies backing down in the face of its Arctic assertions, most clearly evidenced by Canada’s continued claims over the Northwest Passage.33 In the international relations canon, most observers point to either India or China as emerging great powers that are the most likely to counterbalance Ameri- can power. The 2004 American National Intelligence Council report highlights this theory by stating: The likely emergence of China and India as new major global players – similar to the rise of Germany in the 19th century and the United States in the early 20th century – will transform the geopolitical landscape, with impacts potentially as dramatic as those of the previous two centuries. In the same way that commentators refer to the 1900s as the American Century, the early 21st century may be seen as the time when some in the developing world led by China and India came into their own.34 Both China and India have recently expressed their interest in Arctic affairs, but no power is as close to rivalling or challenging American power in hard power terms than Russia. This is especially true in the Arctic, as Russia’s Arctic policies have made its intentions towards asserting its control over territory it deems to be sovereign very clear. The role of the Arctic in Russian foreign policy cannot be understated. According to Russia’s 2008 Arctic policy document, the region is seen as the epicentre of Russia’s military and socio-economic development. The top two priorities for Russian Arctic interests are defined as follows: (a) In the sphere of socio-economic development – the expansion of the resource base of the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, in order to substantially satisfy Russia’s needs in hydrocarbon resources, hydro-biological resources, and other types of strate- gic raw materials; (b) In the sphere of military security, defense, and safekeeping of the state borders of the Russian Federation located in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation – the upkeep of a favorable operational regime in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federa- tion, including the maintenance of the required combat potential of military groupings under the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, other troops, military formations and agencies in this region [...]35 In order to achieve these goals, the Russians have created a unique military brigade to be permanently posted in the Arctic, have placed a Russian Federation flag on the Arctic Ocean seabed, have conducted various missile tests, have sailed their nuclear submarines through contested waters and have openly challenged the abilities of other states to enforce their own claims. In response to Russian offensive posturing and the inability of the United States to dissuade security competition in the area, middle and minor powers have begun to use hard power as a means of trying to enforce their sovereignty. Perhaps the best example here is Canada, whose military capabilities are extremely weak, but strong rhetoric and a drastically increased level of high-north military spending since 2006 seems to indicate that the Canadian government cannot rely on its American alliances to protect its interests, and that posturing by states like Russia or even Denmark clearly threaten Canada’s national interests. As Norway, Sweden and Denmark have begun to put an emphasis on hard power capabilities to extend or defend northern claims, Canada has done the same. Worth noting as well in the Canadian context is that, while great powers like Russia and the United States can easily defeat any middle or minor power, Canada’s capabilities are being either rivalled or surpassed by European states like Norway.36 Canada’s realization of the evolving security and environmental climate in the Arctic has compelled changes to its domestic and foreign security policies, each seeking to assert Canadian sovereignty over areas of the Arctic, especially the Northwest Passage. One of the main components of now Prime Minister Harper’s 2005–06 campaign was to bolster Arctic security resources, as many Canadians have identified the region as an essential part of Canada’s national security and identity.37 Rob Huebert argues: The Harper government has increasingly recognized the significance of maintaining a strong presence in the Arctic and has vigorously begun to improve Canada’s northern abilities [...] The Harper government has also made a series of promises to consider- ably expand Canada’s northern capability [...] If these promises are implemented, Canada will have significantly improved its ability to control activity in its Arctic.38 In virtually any other area of the world, Canadian national security cannot be divorced from the United States, which is a partial explanation for why Canada has traditionally been considered a middle power since the end of World War II.39 Yet, since the start of American decline, the Canadian government has recognized that its fate in the Arctic will be its own, and not intrinsically tied to the protection of the United States, as the Americans have their own interests in the region and have shown a complete disregard for Canadian claims over the Northwest Passage and the Beaufort Sea. As the world moves towards multipolarity, it has become increasingly obvious that the Arctic region represents an area of increased security competition and a potentially conflictual region in the future. Multipolar systems are the most unsta- ble, and history has shown these to produce military conflict due to the natural effects brought by a larger number of self-interested powers vying for power and security. Further, as new great powers begin to emerge, American strategic consid- erations will be spread so thin that they will be unable to prevent against their even- tual loss of hegemony. The largest mistake being made at this time by international security scholars and policymakers is their normal obsession with China, India and latitudinal thinking. The next area of major war is not likely to be the Middle East, the Indian Ocean or the South China Sea, due to traditional security balancing, deterrence and economic interests in each of these areas. Multipolarity naturally brings the possibility of war. Mearsheimer contends that war is far more likely in multipolar systems for three reasons: First, there are more opportunities for war, because there are more potential conflict dyads in a multipolar system. Second, imbalances of power are more commonplace in a multipolar world, and thus great powers are more likely to have the capability to win a war, making deterrence more difficult and war more likely. Third, the potential for miscalculation is greater in multipolarity: states might think they have the capabil- ity to coerce or conquer another state when, in fact, they do not.40 Presently, there is little reason to believe that tension and strategic posturing will lead to the outbreak of war in the near future. That said, as America’s influence continues to wane, other states have shown their desire to take full advantage of the United States’ inability to control northern affairs. If the United States does lose its hegemony, which many commentators believe is inevitable, there will be at least four dyads in security calculations, with Russia, China and India entering the fray, and two of those states have Arctic borders and a historical legacy of conflict. Power imbalance in the Arctic is already apparent, with only Russia and the United States as great powers, while the other Arctic states are middle or minor powers with no hope of preventing a great power from doing as it pleases. Lastly, miscalculation is evident in the present context, as Sweden and Norway are both arming for possible Russian aggression, though Russia has shown little or no overtly aggressive tendencies towards Nordic nations. Unipolarity was not going to last forever, but as it fades the probability of northern conflict is ever increasing. The shift to hard power strategies, the effects of cli- mate change, and the decline of the United States all speak to the fact that multipolarity can increase levels of tension and mistrust, thus altering the currently stable nature of Arctic affairs.Efforts at Arctic governance through institutional binding or legal claims, as seen in the Arctic Council and UNCLOS, are able at present to mitigate the ongoing and ever increasing security competition in the high north, but as the system changes from unipolarity to multipolarity, constraining state behaviour becomes increasingly difficult. As such, observers must be mindful of the systemic variables at play when explaining and forecasting Arctic politics, as changes to the structure are very likely to translate into changes to state security strategies.</span>




Diplomacy isn’t enough to prevent conflict- brinkmanship is coming now
Tassinari 9/7 (Fabrizio Tassinari is a non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, September 7, 2012, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The geopolitics of the Arctic are stuck in a paradox: The more regional players restate the importance of international cooperation, the more some pundits and policymakers seem to conclude that the Arctic risks descending into competition and even conflict. The world is awakening to the growing strategic importance of the High North. As the Arctic ice melts due to global warming, it opens up new opportunities, from shorter shipping lanes to newly accessible oil and gas reserves; respectively, about 13 percent and 30 percent of the world’s undiscovered resources are in the Arctic, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. These discoveries are usually followed by declarations of the littoral nations to the effect that any potential disagreements over them will be resolved peacefully. However, beneath expressions of goodwill, the Arctic debate is often characterized by a sense of urgency, and even forms of alarmism. In recent years, instances of growing securitization of the Arctic have abounded. Back in 2008, a paper by Javier Solana, then the EU’s foreign policy’s chief, and the European Commission warned about “potential conflict over resources in Polar regions” as they become exploitable due to melting ice. In 2010, NATO’s supreme allied commander in Europe, Adm. James Stavridis, argued that “for now, the disputes in the North have been dealt with peacefully, but climate change could alter the equilibrium.” Then there are actions that speak louder than prepared speeches — from the famous August 2007 expedition that planted a Russian flag on the North Pole’s seabed to the annual summer military exercises carried out by Canada to assert its sovereignty in the North. Although the Russian stunt was most likely aimed at nationalist domestic audiences, some observers view these exercises as the expressions of competing national interests. As the scholar Scott Borgerson ominously put it: “The Arctic powers are fast approaching diplomatic gridlock, and that could eventually lead to the sort of armed brinkmanship that plagues other territories.” The geopolitical constellation in and around the region provides a ready justification for such an assessment. While no-one really imagines the United States, Canada, Norway, and Denmark fighting over the Arctic, some of their politicians have occasionally framed rhetoric in more peppered terms than one might expect. Russia, the fifth Arctic littoral nation, typically treads a fine line between declarations of cooperation and an innate instinct for great-power competition. Add to that the EU, which is seeking to carve its own role, and Asia’s giants, above all China, for which the opening of the Northeast passage may reduce sailing distance with Europe by some 40 percent, and it is not hard to conjure up the prospect of an Arctic race building up.</span>


Presence is also key to solve oil spills
Rufe 12 (Roger T., 5.27.12, The Portland Press Herald, “Oil Spill in Arctic Ocean would tax our capabilities”, [[http://www.pressherald.com/opinion/oil-spill-in-arctic-ocean-would-tax-our-capabilities_2012-05-27.html]])

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The second anniversary of the Deepwater Horizon disaster passed with little fanfare last month. But with our government on the brink of allowing the oil industry to explore in America's remote Arctic Ocean this summer, it is worth revisiting some of the lessons learned from the biggest oil spill in the nation's history. Stopping that spill took three months, even though it occurred in the relatively calm waters of the Gulf of Mexico near Coast Guard stations, cleanup equipment and abundant shoreside support. Subsequently, I was asked to chair a panel of federal, state, industry and environmental experts to review our nation's response. Our recommendations are especially important for the Arctic. The Arctic Ocean has one of the harshest climates on Earth. Even in the summer, conditions are volatile, with sudden, violent storms and shifting sea ice. The shoreline is sparsely populated, with no roads connecting the eight main villages to each other or to the rest of Alaska. The nearest major seaport is 1,300 nautical miles away; the nearest Coast Guard air station is 950 air miles. A spill cleanup effort could take weeks to mount and then could suffer endless delays because of foul weather. Although preventing and containing an oil spill in these extreme conditions is the priority, we must also have a plan for response. After the Gulf, we witnessed firsthand that the middle of an emergency is not the time to come up with one. Fully developed and detailed procedures, agreed to in advance, are essential to an effective response. These must address the impact of a spill on environmentally sensitive areas and species, as well as on local economies. This requires a great deal of scientific research along with full and early consultation with indigenous peoples. After all, it is their livelihoods that are at risk. Even then, response plans are only as good as the men and women who will implement them. So it is critical that they provide for an adequate number of trained personnel and proper equipment to deal with a worst-case scenario. If this was a problem in the early going of the Gulf spill, imagine what a challenge it could be in the Arctic. Finally, such contingency planning must be tested in real-life conditions. Although we learned from the Gulf disaster what is needed for an effective spill response plan, we are on the brink of drilling in a much more remote and extreme location without these hard-won lessons in place. Important habitat and key subsistence areas in the U.S. Arctic Ocean have yet to be set off-limits. The U.S. Coast Guard's two heavy-duty icebreakers -- needed for search-and-rescue missions and to support oil spill response and recovery -- have outlived their original life span; the only remaining ice-capable vessel was built for scientific research and is not adequate for heavy icebreaking. </span>

Extinction
WWF 10 (December 1, 2010 “Drilling for Oil in the Arctic: Too Soon, Too Risky” World Wildlife Fund http://www.worldwildlife.org/what/wherewework/arctic/WWFBinaryitem18711.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Planetary Keystone The Arctic and the subarctic regions surrounding it are important for many reasons. One is their enormous biological diversity: a kaleidoscopic array of land and seascapes supporting millions of migrating birds and charismatic species such as polar bears, walruses, narwhals and sea otters. Economics is another: Alaskan fisheries are among the richest in the world. Their $2.2 billion in annual catch fills the frozen food sections and seafood counters of supermarkets across the nation. However, there is another reason why the Arctic is not just important, but among the most important places on the face of the Earth. A keystone species is generally defined as one whose removal from an ecosystem triggers a cascade of changes affecting other species in that ecosystem. The same can be said of the Arctic in relation to the rest of the world. With feedback mechanisms that affect ocean currents and influence climate patterns, the Arctic functions like a global thermostat. Heat balance, ocean circulation patterns and the carbon cycle are all related to its regulatory and carbon storage functions. Disrupt these functions and we effect far-reaching changes in the conditions under which life has existed on Earth for thousands of years. In the context of climate change, the Arctic is a keystone ecosystem for the entire planet.</span>

Reject their defense- large Alaskan spills overwhelm natural checks and devastate ecosystems
NAE 3 – National Academy of Engineering , American National Academies (“Cumulative Environmental Effects of Oil and Gas Activities on Alaska’s North Slope”, 2003; < http://dels-old.nas.edu/dels/rpt_briefs/north_slope_final.pdf>)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Alaska’s North Slope is underlain by permafrost— a thick layer of earth material that stays frozen year round. The permafrost is covered by a thin active layer that thaws each summer and supports plant growth for a brief period. If permafrost thaws, the ground surface and the structures it supports will settle. To minimize disruption to the ground surface, the North Slope industrial infrastructure is specially built—pipelines are generally elevated rather than buried, and roads and industrial facilities are raised on thick gravel berms. For a variety of reasons, nearly all of the roads, pads, pipelines and other infrastructure ever built are still in place. The environmental effects of such structures on the landscape, water systems, vegetation, and animals are manifest not only at the “footprint” itself (physical area covered by the structure) but also at distances that vary depending on the environmental component being affected. The petroleum industry continues to introduce technological innovations to reduce its footprint, for example, directional drilling and the use of ice roads and pads, drilling platforms, and new kinds of vehicles. For some areas of concern, the committee found no evidence that effects have accumulated. For example, despite widespread concern regarding the damaging effects of frequent oil and saltwater spills on the tundra, most spills to date have been small and have had only local effects. Moreover, damaged areas have recovered before they have been disturbed again. However, a large oil spill in marine waters would likely have substantial accumulating effects on whales and other receptors because current cleanup methods can remove only a small fraction of spilled oil, especially under conditions of broken ice.</span>

===Contention Two- Development=== 
Icebreakers key to arctic economic and resource development
Kilmas 12 (Jacqueline, staff writer, March 24, http://www.navytimes.com/news/2012/03/navy-coast-guard-arctic-ice-breaker-032412w/)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">As countries like Russia and even China grow their icebreaker fleet, Sen. Mark Begich, D-Alaska, emphasized how critical it is for the U.S. to keep up. “We have to be a part of that,” he said. “It’s important that we not be under-asseted, and have enough equipment to do the work,” which could include oil and gas exploration. Simon Stephenson, the division director of Arctic sciences at the National Science Foundation, emphasized that Arctic research is important to the everyday life of people worldwide, not just in scientific circles. Researchers in the Arctic are looking at melting sea ice and changes in ocean circulation — things that can affect pressure systems and the entire global weather cycle. “By affecting pressure systems, you can affect the upper air circulation which drives our weather — in Europe, in the mid-Atlantic states, in China. All of these areas have seen changes in their weather patterns,” Stephenson said. Access to the Arctic has received broad support in Congress. While the purchase of a new icebreaker has been supported by both Alaska senators, senators including Joe Lieberman, I-Conn., and Maria Cantwell, D-Wash., say the acquisition of a new icebreaker is a national priority. “Icebreakers are of critical importance to America’s national security as well as our economic interests in the Arctic,” Cantwell said in a statement. “According to the Coast Guard’s own comprehensive analysis, we need to invest in at least six new icebreakers to fulfill our nation’s icebreaking missions.” The Coast Guard’s responsibilities in the Arctic include national security, protection of the environment, sustainable economic development of the area, cooperation with other nations with Arctic claims and involvement of the indigenous communities in decisions, according to Lt. Paul Rhynard, the service’s deputy chief of media relations. “The bottom line is that the Coast Guard has the same responsibilities in the Arctic as it does in the Gulf of Mexico or any other U.S. maritime region, yet the Arctic coast provides unique challenges, especially during the winter months, due to extreme conditions of severe weather, sea ice, extended periods of darkness and remoteness of the region,” Rhynard said in a statement.</span>

Icebreakers key to OCS development- accesses methane hydrates, allows OCS mapping, and increases oil supply
Cohen et al 8 (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2008/10/the-new-cold-war-reviving-the-us-presence-in-the-arctic)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The Arctic is quickly reemerging as a strategic area where vital U.S. interests are at stake. The geopolitical and geo-economic importance of the Arctic region is rising rapidly, and its mineral wealth will likely transform the region into a booming economic frontier in the 21st century. The coasts and continental shelf of the Arctic Ocean are estimated to hold large deposits of oil, natural gas, and methane hydrate (natural gas) clusters along with large quantities of valuable minerals. With the shrinking of the polar ice cap, extended navigation through the Northwest Passage along the northern coast of North America may soon become possible with the help of icebreakers. Similarly, Russia is seeking to make the Northern Sea Route along the northern coast of Eurasia navigable for considerably longer periods of the year. Opening these shorter routes will significantly cut the time and costs of shipping. (See Map 1.) In recent years, Russia has been particularly active in the Arctic, aggressively advancing its interests and claims by using international law and by projecting military might into the region. Despite the Arctic's strategic location and vast resources, the U.S. has largely ignored this region. The United States needs to develop a comprehensive policy for the Arctic, including diplomatic, naval, military, and economic policy components. This should include swiftly mapping U.S. territorial claims to determine their extent and to defend against claims by other countries. With oil and gas prices recently at historic highs in a tight supply and demand environment, the rich hydrocarbon resources in the Arctic may bring some relief to consumers. These resources, especially the hydrocarbons, also have the potential to significantly enhance the economy and the energy security of North America and the world. The Arctic's Vast Untapped Resources The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that the Arctic might hold as much as 90 billion barrels (13 percent) of the world's undiscovered oil reserves and 47.3 trillion cubic meters (tcm) (30 percent) of the world's undiscovered natural gas. At current consumption rates and assuming a 50 percent utilization rate of reserves, this is enough oil to meet global demand for 1.4 years and U.S. demand for six years. Arctic natural gas reserves may equal Russia's proven reserves, the world's largest.[1] (See Table 1.) The Russian Ministry of Natural Resources estimates that the underwater Arctic region claimed by Russia could hold as much as 586 billion barrels of unproven oil reserves.[2] The ministry estimates that proven oil deposits "in the Russian area of water proper" in the Barents, Pechora, Kara, East Siberian, Chukchi, and Laptev Seas could reach 418 million tons (3 billion barrels) and proven gas reserves could reach 7.7 tcm. Unexplored reserves could total 9.24 billion tons (67.7 billion barrels) of oil and 88.3 tcm of natural gas.[3] Overall, Russia estimates that these areas have up to 10 trillion tons of hydrocarbon deposits, the equivalent of 73 trillion barrels of oil.[4] In addition to oil and gas, the Arctic seabed may contain significant deposits of valuable metals and precious stones, such as gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, manganese, nickel, platinum, tin, zinc, and diamonds. The rise of China, India, and other developing countries has increased global demand for these commodities.[5] Alaska 's North Slope. Alaska's North Slope contributes significantly to U.S. oil production and could supply more. The North Slope is the region of Alaska from the Canadian border on the east to the Chukchi Sea Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) on the west. It includes the Chukchi Sea OCS, the Beaufort Sea OCS, the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), the Central Arctic (the region between the Colville and Canning Rivers), and the National Petroleum Reserve, Alaska.[6] (See Map 2.) Between 1977 and 2004, the Prudhoe Bay oil field on the North Slope produced more than 15 billion barrels of oil. By 1988, Prudhoe Bay was accounting for more than 25 percent of U.S. crude oil production. However, Prudhoe Bay oil field is currently in steep decline.[7] A U.S. Department of Energy report found that the North Slope has potentially 36 billion barrels of oil and 3.8 tcm of natural gas, close to Nigeria's proven reserves. The report also estimates that the Chukchi Sea OCS and the Beaufort Sea OCS hold combined energy reserves of 14 billion barrels of oil and about 2 tcm of natural gas.[8] Furthermore, these reserves are even more attractive because their development is less limited by federal, state, and local legislation, as is the case with ANWR, and are thus more accessible to drilling.[9] To enhance U.S. energy security, America should expand domestic oil production. America remains the only oil-producing nation on earth that has placed a significant amount of its reserves out of reach.[10] Until recently, potentially large U.S. natural gas deposits have been off limits.[11] For instance, ANWR holds potential reserves of about 10 billion barrels of petroleum.[12] Such reserves could lead to an additional 1 million barrels per day in domestic production, which could be transported south through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, which has a spare capacity of 1 million barrels per day. An additional 1 million barrels per day would save the U.S. $123 billion in petroleum imports, create $7.7 billion in new economic activity, and generate 128,000 new jobs.[13] Methane Hydrates. Large methane hydrate deposits are located on the deep seabed of the Arctic Ocean.[14] Methane hydrates are a solid form of natural gas and have 3,000 times the concentration of methane found in the atmosphere.[15] While no technology currently exists to mine methane clusters, the capability appears to be just over the horizon. The U.S. and Japan have agreed to cooperate in researching and developing commercial methane hydrate processing with the goal of selling gas from methane hydrates by 2018.[16] The South Korean Ministry of Energy has also announced that it will work with the U.S. in exploring and developing methane hydrate deposits to develop a commercially viable energy source. Seoul is also hoping to participate in the U.S.-sponsored Alaska North Slope project in 2009 to test the viability of using methane hydrates as an energy source.[17] Global Oil Supply and the Demand "Crunch." Arctic oil and gas resources have become increasingly important given the tight energy market. Escalating demand for energy in 2001–2008, stagnating supply, political instability, growing resource nationalism, terrorism, and ethnic conflict have combined into a perfect storm of a global supply and demand crunch.[18] This crunch has been reflected in high oil prices ($147 per barrel in July). While oil prices have since retreated to less than $70 per barrel due to the financial crisis, global energy markets are expected to remain tight for the long-term as the fundamentals remain largely the same (i.e., rising demand in emerging markets and flattening supply). While these trends bode ill for energy security, the resources in the Arctic offer a glimmer of hope. U.S. Energy Supplies. Developing oil deposits in the Arctic is strategically important because the region is not beset by religious, ethnic, or social strife and resource nationalism that plague oil-producing countries in the Middle East, West Africa, and Latin America. One way to reduce U.S. dependency on foreign oil is to develop Arctic oil fields. Such development would lower prices in the international oil market, even after accounting for the time lag for bringing new oil fields online. Moreover, the rich oil and gas deposits in Alaska's North Slope and in the U.S. offshore Arctic territories could further increase U.S. energy supply by guaranteeing availability of additional domestic energy supplies in the time of a national emergency.[19] Liquefied Natural Gas. U.S. demand for natural gas is growing because generating electric power using natural gas is cleaner and more efficient than with coal or oil. Natural gas production in the U.S. and Canada has not kept pace with the rising demand and is "flattening out" or declining.[20] In 2004, former Chairman of the Federal Reserve Alan Greenspan saw increased imports of liquefied natural gas (LNG) as a solution, or "price-pressure safety valve," to reduce prices and fill the gap from diminishing North American gas supply.[21] However, LNG imports have so far proven expensive in meeting growing demand. The price of natural gas abroad is nearly double the price in the U.S., so LNG flows to other buyers who are willing to pay higher prices, such as in Japan. As Royal Dutch Shell's executive director of gas and power Linda Cook suggested, U.S. domestic production of natural gas could run 15–20 billion cubic feet per day below domestic demand by 2025.[22] However, augmented LNG production from the Arctic could help to meet future demand and to reduce gas prices in the domestic market, which would benefit industry and consumers. Opening the Arctic Outer Continental Shelf. In a timely move prompted by the current demand, the Mineral Management Service in the U.S. Department of the Interior has started offering oil and gas lease sales for drilling rights in the Outer Continental Shelf in the Chukchi and Beaufort Seas. For example, the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale in February 2008 was the first OCS lease sale in 17 years.[23] International corporations are now flocking to the High North. BP is developing a drilling project known as Liberty in the OCS. In February 2008, Royal Dutch Shell paid $2.1 billion for 275 lease blocks in the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale 193. At the February 2008 lease sale, Norway's StatoilHydro and Italy's ENI were the high bidders on a number of blocks. In total, seven companies participated in the Chukchi Sea Lease Sale, which spanned an area covering 5,354 blocks.[24] In the future, these and other projects on the Arctic Outer Continental Shelf could deliver gas to the lower 48 states through the Trans-Alaska Pipeline and the Canadian Mackenzie Valley Pipeline. U.S. Claims in the Arctic The U.S. relies on its sovereign power and diplomacy when pursuing territorial claims in the Arctic. The United States is not a party to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) and therefore is not bound by any procedures and determinations concluded through LOST instruments. Instead, the U.S. is pursuing its claims "as an independent, sovereign nation," relying in part on Harry S. Truman's Presidential Proclamation No. 2667, which declares that any hydrocarbon or other resources discovered beneath the U.S. continental shelf are the property of the United States.[25] The U.S. can defend its rights and claims through bilateral negotiations and in the multilateral venues such as through the Arctic Ocean Conference in May 2008, which met in Ilulissat, Greenland. Many have argued, including the Bush Administration, that the U.S. will not have leverage or a "seat at the table" to pursue or defend its Arctic claims on condition that the U.S. is not a party to LOST. However, U.S. attendance at the conference in Ilulissat significantly weakened this argument. Even though the U.S. is not a LOST party, other Arctic nations "are unable to assert credible claims on U.S. territory in the Arctic or anywhere else in the world" because President Truman already secured U.S. rights to Arctic resources with his proclamation.[26] Yet to protect its rights, the U.S. needs to know how far its claims stretch into the Arctic Ocean. The U.S. has been mapping the bottom of the Arctic Ocean and the Outer Continental Shelf since 2003.[27] Mapping is essential to determining the extent of the U.S. OCS and determining whether the U.S. has any legitimate claims to territory beyond its 200-nautical-mile exclusive economic zone. Despite ongoing U.S. efforts to chart the bottom of the Arctic Ocean, mapping efforts have been inadequate. According to a National Research Council report in 2007, the U.S. continental shelf and the Northwest Passage have not yet been entirely mapped.[28] Mapping is also important for disputing any conflicting claims by other Arctic nations. For example, the U.S. and Canada have likely claimed some of the same parts of the continental shelf.[29] Mapping data will also help to determine whether Russian claims conflict with U.S. and Canadian claims. The expedition undertaken by the icebreaker USCGC Healy in the Chukchi Sea focused on surveying an area 400 to 600 miles north of Alaska and cost about $1.2 million—a pittance compared to the billions of dollars of Arctic natural resources that are at stake. The survey indicated that the foot or lowest part of the Alaskan continental shelf stretches more than 100 miles beyond what was previously thought, thus expanding the U.S. claim.[30] The U.S. requires a modern flotilla of icebreakers to conduct mapping and to sustain U.S. claims. The U.S. currently has only three icebreakers that belong to the Coast Guard, of which only the Healy (commissioned in 2000) is relatively new. The other two icebreakers, while heavier than the Healy and thus capable of breaking through thicker ice, are at the end of their designed service life after operating for about 30 years. Yet even if the U.S. begins now, it will be eight to 10 years before a new icebreaker can enter service, and no money has been allocated to build a new-generation heavy icebreaker.[31]</span>



Scenario one is methane:
Arctic methane burst is inevitable- extraction is key
Light 12 (Malcolm P.R. Light, Center for Polar Observation and Modeling, University of London, polar climate modeling and methane hydrates in the permafrost and submarine Arctic, “Charting Mankind’s Arctic Methane Emission Exponential Expressway to Total Extinction in the Next 50 Years,” Arctic News, August 10, 2012, http://arctic-news.blogspot.com/2012/08/charting-mankinds-expressway-to-extinction.html)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">If left alone the subsea Arctic methane hydrates will explosively destabilize on their own due to global warming and produce a massive Arctic wide methane “blowout” that will lead to humanity’s total extinction, probably before the middle of this century (Light 2012 a, b and c). AIRS atmospheric methane concentration data between 2008 and 2012 (Yurganov 2012) show that the Arctic has already entered the early stages of a subsea methane “blowout” so we need to step in as soon as we can (e.g. 2015) to prevent it escalating any further (Light 2012c). The Arctic Natural Gas Extraction, Liquefaction & Sales (ANGELS) Proposal aims to reduce the threat of large, abrupt releases of methane in the Arctic, by extracting methane from Arctic methane hydrates prone to destabilization (Light, 2012c). After the Arctic sea ice has gone (probably around 2015) we propose that a large consortium of oil and gas companies/governments set up drilling platforms near the regions of maximum subsea methane emissions and drill a whole series of shallow directional production drill holes into the subsea subpermafrost “free methane” reservoir in order to depressurize it in a controlled manner (Light 2012c). This methane will be produced to the surface, liquefied, stored and transported on LNG tankers as a “green energy” source to all nations, totally replacing oil and coal as the major energy source (Light 2012c). The subsea methane reserves are so large that they can supply the entire earth’s energy needs for several hundreds of years (Light 2012c). By sufficiently depressurizing the Arctic subsea subpermafrost methane it will be possible to draw down Arctic ocean water through the old eruption sites and fracture systems and destabilize the methane hydrates in a controlled way thus shutting down the entire Arctic subsea methane blowout (Light 2012c).</span>

Methane burst causes extinction- it’s comparatively worse than nuke war
Ryskin ‘3- Ph.D. Chemical Engineering California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA Engineer-Physicist St. Petersburg Polytechnic Institute, St. Petersburg, Russia Fluid dynamics; statistical physics; geophysics Associate Professor of Chemical and Biological Engineering (Gregory, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003,[[http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid subject to gravity and completely or partially saturated with dissolved gas is, thermodynamically, in a metastable state. Consider for clarity the case when the concentration of the dissolved gas is only slightly below saturation throughout, and thus increases downward in accordance with Henry’s law. Then locally there is no tendency for the dissolved gas to exsolve (to form bubbles), in spite of the fact that nuclei are abundant in seawater. (Exsolution would lead to a slight increase in free energy: below saturation, the chemical potential of the gas species is lower in solution than in the free gas phase.) At the same time, the free energy of the system as a whole would be greatly reduced if most of the dissolved gas were to somehow escape from solution and collect above the liquid. (This free energy reduction is due to the fast decrease of the chemical potential of gas with a drop in pressure.) Thus, the system is in a metastable state, albeit an unusual one. Strictly speaking, this state is not an equilibrium one even locally: the increase of the solute concentration with depth causes a diffusion ﬂux directed upward, which, given sufﬁcient time, could bring the system into the above state of minimum free energy. However, the continuous supply of methane by the rising bubbles from the seaﬂoor ensures that the concentration proﬁle will remain nonuniform, slowly approaching the saturation one. Even if that supply were to cease, the diffusion time scales are so long that this path toward the global energy minimum can be ignored. A very fast transition from this metastable state can be triggered by disturbances that displace ﬂuid a ﬁnite distance in the vertical direction. Such disturbances may result from an earthquake, a seaﬂoor volcano, convection currents due to geothermal heating, or an internal gravity wave. Consider a parcel of ﬂuid that is displaced upward, and is now subject to lower hydrostatic pressure, to which corresponds a lower solubility value. As a result, the ﬂuid in the parcel is now supersaturated with the dissolved gas, which must begin to exsolve, forming tiny gas bubbles. (If the ﬂuid in its original position was only partially saturated, exsolution will begin after the parcel has risen through some signiﬁcant distance, so in this case the initial disturbance must be sufﬁciently large.) The volume of the ascending parcel of ﬂuid increases due to the formation of bubbles, making it more buoyant and accelerating its rise; this leads to further reduction in the ambient pressure, further exsolution of gas, and further increase in the volume of the parcel. This self-accelerating motion entrains the surrounding ﬂuid; exsolution of the gas in the latter reinforces the motion. The result is a violent eruption (Kling et al., 1987; Zhang, 1996). From the initial eruption site, hydrodynamic disturbances propagate in all directions (via turbulent entrainment and/or internal gravity waves), triggering eruptions at other sites. Similarly to transitions from other metastable states (e.g., boiling of a superheated liquid), the eruption should spread quickly throughout the region of the ocean where the water column is saturated, or partially saturated, with gas. In spite of the low solubility of methane in seawater, the total possible increase in the buoyancy of the parcel can be large. Consider a parcel that started its rise at 4 km depth, where solubility of methane is ;4.3 3 1023 . Then, if the parcel had a volume of 18 cm3 (1 mol of water) and was saturated with methane, it contained 4.3 3 1023 mol of dissolved methane. By the time this parcel has risen to the surface, essentially all the methane in the parcel has exsolved (solubility is ;2 3 1025 at the surface). At the surface conditions (T ø 25 8C, P 5 1 bar), 1 mol of any gas occupies 25 3 10 3 cm3 , so the total volume of methane in the parcel is ;108 cm3 , and the volume of the parcel, which now contains a mist of water droplets in gaseous methane, is 126 cm3 . That is, the volume of the parcel has increased by a factor of seven. Concurrent exsolution of other dissolved gases (e.g., carbon dioxide CO2 , hydrogen sulﬁde H2 S) will add to the effect. A rather similar process is responsible for the most violent, explosive volcanic eruptions (called Plinian), such as eruptions of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79 or Mount St. Helens in 1980. These eruptions are driven by exsolution of gases (primarily water vapor) dissolved in the liquid magma. In Lake Nyos (Cameroon), CO2 of magmatic origin enters the water column from the bottom, at a depth of ;200 m. In 1986, the lake erupted, creating a gas-water fountain ;120 m in height (Zhang, 1996), and releasing a lethal cloud of CO2 . A water surge washed up the shore to a height of ;25 m. The eruption continued for several hours (Kling et al., 1987). OCEANIC ERUPTION AS A CAUSE OF MASS EXTINCTION The consequences of a methane-driven oceanic eruption for marine and terrestrial life are likely to be catastrophic. Figuratively speaking, the erupting region ‘‘boils over,’’ ejecting a large amount of methane and other gases (e.g., CO2 , H2 S) into the atmosphere, and ﬂooding large areas of land. Whereas pure methane is lighter than air, methane loaded with water droplets is much heavier, and thus spreads over the land, mixing with air in the process (and losing water as rain). The air methane mixture is explosive at methane concentrations between 5% and 15%; as such mixtures form in different locations near the ground and are ignited by lightning, explosions 2 and conﬂagrations destroy most of the terrestrial life, and also produce great amounts of smoke and of carbon dioxide. Firestorms carry smoke and dust into the upper atmosphere, where they may remain for several years (Turco et al., 1991); the resulting darkness and global cooling may provide an additional kill mechanism. Conversely, carbon dioxide and the remaining methane create the greenhouse effect, which may lead to global warming. The outcome of the competition between the cooling and the warming tendencies is difﬁcult to predict (Turco et al., 1991; Pierrehumbert, 2002). Upon release of a signiﬁcant portion of the dissolved methane, the ocean settles down, and the entire sequence of events (i.e., development of anoxia, accumulation of dissolved methane, the metastable state, eruption) begins anew. No external cause is required to bring about a methane-driven eruption—its mechanism is self-contained, and implies that eruptions are likely to occur repeatedly at the same location. Because methane is isotopically light, its fast release must result in a negative carbon isotope excursion in the geological record. Knowing the magnitude of the excursion, one can estimate the amount of methane that could have produced it. Such calculations (prompted by the methane-hydrate-dissociation model, but equally applicable here) have been performed for several global events in the geological record; the results range from ;10 18 to 10 19 g of released methane (e.g., Katz et al., 1999; Kennedy et al., 2001; de Wit et al., 2002). These are very large amounts: the total carbon content of today’s terrestrial biomass is ;2 3 10 18 g. Nevertheless, relatively small regions of the deep ocean could contain such amounts of dissolved methane; e.g., the Black Sea alone (volume ;0.4 3 1023 of the ocean total; maximum depth only 2.2 km) could hold, at saturation, ;0.5 3 10 18 g. A similar region of the deep ocean could contain much more (the amount grows quadratically with depth 3 ). Released in a geological instant (weeks, perhaps), 10 18 to 10 19 g of methane could destroy the terrestrial life almost entirely. Combustion and explosion of 0.75 3 10 19 g of methane would liberate energy equivalent to 10 8 Mt of TNT, ;10,000 times greater than the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons, implicated in the nuclearwinter scenario (Turco et al., 1991). </span>


Scenario two is the economy:

Collapse coming __[[#|now]]__, all recovery talk is an illusion
Lendman 2/1 (Stephen- BA from Harvard, researcher at the Centre for Research on Globalization, citing John Williams- BA in economics at Darthmouth and respected economist, and Marc Faber- Market Analyst, 2013, “The US Economy in Crisis: Recovery is an Illusion”, http://www.globalresearch.ca/the-us-economy-in-crisis-recovery-is-an-illusion/5321394)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Headlines flashed warning signs. Commentaries downplayed them. A Wall Street Journal editorial headlined “As Contractions Go….”¶ US Q IV GDP shrank, “but not to worry. The report is better than it sounds, the stock market is rocking, and (the Fed will) keep both feet pressed firmly on the monetary accelerator.”¶ The Financial Times headlined “US outlook still clear despite shower,” saying:¶ Predicting recession “based on (-0.1% GDP decline) “is a bit like expecting rain because somebody threw a bucket of water out the window.”¶ The wildcard is “if Congress decides to dump water out the window every month, via across-the-board ‘sequester’ cuts” expected soon.¶ According to Bloomberg, “R-Word For US Economy in 2013 is Rebound Not Recession.”¶ According to JP Morgan Chase, Bank of America, and Morgan Stanley economists, America’s economy “will bounce back in (Q I) after plunging defense spending and dwindling inventory growth” hurt Q IV.¶ Not according to economist John Williams. Recovery is illusory, he says. It’s fake. Phony government numbers conceal weakness. Growth hasn’t occurred since 2006/2007.¶ Earlier Williams said:¶ “Indeed, the ‘recovery’ is an illusion that has been created as a direct result of methodological changes in government inflation reporting of recent decades.”¶ They “resulted in an artificial lowering of official rates of inflation. The faux growth problem is in the use of understated inflation estimates in deflating a number of economic series.”¶ “Major economic series that have no underlying pricing base – such as housing starts, payroll employment and consumer confidence – correspondingly do not require inflation adjustment to put them on a consistent theoretical basis with the concept of real (inflation-adjusted) GDP.”¶ “Those series confirm a history of business activity in recent years that shows a plunge in the economy from 2006/2007 into late-2008/mid-2009, followed by a period of protracted, low-level stagnation, or bottom-bouncing, instead of ‘recovery.’ ”¶ Williams expects double-dip recession in 2013. It likely began in 2012 Q II or III, he believes.¶ Last August, market analyst Marc Faber rated odds for global recession at 100%. Little or nothing ahead looks promising. Corporate profits will disappoint.¶ The Fed can do so much and no more. Money printing has limits. It’s not magic. On January 31, Faber repeated earlier warnings.¶ “When you print money,” he said, it “doesn’t flow evenly into an economy. It flows to some people or to sectors first, and in this case, it flowed into equities, and until about five months ago into bonds.”¶ “I believe that markets will punish central banks at some state through an accident.”¶ Stocks could hit bubble levels and pop. Rising interest rates could collapse bonds.¶ “For the first time in four years, since the lows in March 2009, I love this market because the higher it goes, the more likely we will have a nice crash, a big time crash.”¶ He thinks weak global growth and disappointing corporate profits will trigger trouble.¶ Fed governors are cautious. On January 3, FOMC minutes said:¶ “With regard to the possible costs and risks of purchases, a number of participants expressed the concern that additional purchases could complicate the Committee’s efforts to eventually withdraw monetary policy accommodation, for example, by potentially causing inflation expectations to rise or by impairing the future implementation of monetary policy.”¶ “Participants also discussed the implications of continued asset purchases for the size of the Federal Reserve’s balance sheet. Depending on the path for the balance sheet and interest rates, the Federal Reserve’s net income and its remittances to the Treasury could be significantly affected during the period of policy normalization.”¶ “Participants noted that the Committee would need to continue to assess whether large purchases were having adverse effects on market functioning and financial stability.” ”¶ “They expressed a range of views on the appropriate pace of purchases, both now and as the outlook evolved. It was agreed that both the efficacy and the costs would need to be carefully monitored and taken into account in determining the size, pace, and composition of asset purchases.”¶ Governors are conflicted. They have reason to worry. They’re questioning excessive longterm money printing benefits. Artificial schemes don’t work. They cause more harm than good.¶ Eventually they end. What can’t go on forever won’t. They’ll have to decide when. Economic and market consequences will follow.¶ Newly released Q IV GDP data showed growth contracted 0.1%. Sequestered deficit cutting suggests further declines. Consumer confidence is low for good reason. Europe, China, Japan, and other major world economies show weakness.¶ Is America on track for double dip trouble? In Q IV, government and business inventory spending declined. Auto sales alone drove consumer spending gains. Deep discounts, near zero interest rates, and Hurricane Sandy affected purchases stimulated sales.¶ Exports were down. Weak global manufacturing and trade affected them. Healthcare spending slowed noticeably. US economic growth ground to a halt. Doing so suggests weakness going forward.¶ Artificial stimulus works only so long. Q III included record defense spending. It accounted for over a third of GDP growth. It followed two years of reduced government spending.¶ Q III data were released days before November elections. Good news benefited Obama.¶ True Q III GDP growth was misreported. It wasn’t 3%. When accurately adjusted, it was 1 – 1.5%. It’s been that way for two years. Day of reckoning signs appeared in Q IV.¶ Multiple quantitative easing rounds barely held economic growth above water. Money printing madness substituted for stimulative growth. Central bank intervention repeated what hasn’t before worked.¶ European economies are troubled. America shows weakness. Force-fed austerity doesn’t work. Decline replaces prosperity. Living standards deteriorate. Households have less to spend.¶ Production and consumption suffer. So does the real economy. Financial war helps speculators alone benefit. Eventually expect systemic crisis. It could take months or years to arrive.¶ Market manipulation delays day of reckoning time. It can’t prevent it. Q IV GDP suggests 2013 weakness. Headwinds may be stiffer than expected.¶ Payroll tax increases cuts $100 billion from GDP. It does so when stimulus is needed. Consumer sentiment and spending are weak.¶ Expect sequestered/largely discretionary $1.2 trillion cuts by end of March. Stiff 10 – 20% health insurance premium hikes impact healthcare spending.¶ Business spending spiked in Q IV. It did so ahead of expected tax law changes. Expect it to slow in Q I. Manufacturing is weak. Housing remains troubled. So is America’s economy. Odds favor double-dip trouble.¶ Five years after economic collapse, virtually zero growth was achieved. Wall Street was bailed out. Main Street was sold out. Ellen Brown does some of the best financial writing.¶ Last September, she said America’s economy needs “a good dose of ‘aggregate demand.’ ” It needs money put in people’s pockets.¶ QE for Wall Street won’t jumpstart the economy. It won’t “reduce unemployment.” It’s stuck at 23%. It’s the highest since Great Depression levels.¶ QE puts no “money in the pockets of consumers.” It doesn’t “reflate the money supply.”¶ “(S)ignificantly lower interest rates for homeowners” aren’t achieved. Other consumer purchases don’t benefit.¶ QE helps bankers, other speculators and investors. Ordinary people are harmed. Economic growth is taxed. It’s monetary poison. It’s harming the dollar.¶ Finance is a new form of warfare. Money printing madness is based on the wrong-headed notion that Fed-supplied liquidity encourages bank lending to stimulate growth.¶ Despite multi-trillions of dollars in free zero interest rate money, bank lending to small/medium sized businesses and households is too little to help.¶ No loans mean no investment, no hiring, and no money in people’s pockets. At the same time, US corporate giants hoard enormous amounts of cash. Estimates range up to $5 trillion.¶ Fed reports downplay what’s held. Their data include only domestic cash reserves, Treasuries, other bonds, and bank accounts.¶ Foreign holdings aren’t included. Global trillions aren’t invested. They’re used for salaries, huge bonuses, dividends, stock buybacks, and speculation.¶ At the same time, inflation-adjusted consumer disposable income declined for decades. Post-9/11, it’s been especially hard hit.¶ Spending growth is largely credit driven. Insufficient income retards it. Households are debt-entrapped. Eventually they’ll be unable to assume more.¶ Progressive Radio News Hour regular Jack Rasmus discusses America’s “epic recession.” For five years, its economy “bumped along the bottom.” Conditions ahead look worse, not better.¶ Fed gamesmanship puts international finance at risk. Economies haven’t been healed. They’ve been wrecked. QE is a zero sum game. It’s financial terrorism.</span>

Development generates massive economic benefits---job growth, deficit reduction and ripple effect in the short-term
Mills 12 Mark, member of the advisory council of the McCormick School of Engineering and Applied Science at Northwestern University and serves on the board of directors of the Marshall Institute, 7/9, “Could the United States Become the World’s Energy-Export Powerhouse?”, [[http://www.manhattan-institute.org/pdf/press_release_pgi_01.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Unleashing 20 billion barrels of cumulative oil from Alaska’s ANWR and some currently off-limits regions of the outer continental shelf would bring over $1 trillion of net benefits to the U.S. economy. 36 In general, both history and recent analyses show that for every billion barrels of oil produced (or oil-equivalent in natural gas, and similar range for coal), there are about $75 billion in broad economic benefits. 37 A number of recent studies have explored the implications of the new hydrocarbon trajectory, should it continue unimpeded: o Citi’s analysis concludes that the oil and gas extraction sector could add as many as 3.6 million net new jobs by 2020 (for North America, both direct and indirect) and shrink the deficit by 60 percent. 38 o Wood Mackenzie 39 finds in its scenario report for the American Petroleum Institute a cumulative $800 billion in increased revenues to governments (federal, state, local) and another 1.5 million U.S. jobs, direct and indirect, over the coming two decades. o IHS Global Insight, 40 in its analysis for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, estimates that the shale gas industry alone will add more than 1 million jobs across the U.S. economy over the coming two decades and provide over $900 billion in cumulative additional federal, state, and local government tax revenues ($465 federal, $460 state and local). While there are differences in assumptions and boundaries among these and similar analyses, the order-of magnitude benefits are similar and similarly impressive: millions of jobs and hundreds of billions in revenues to government coffers. None of the above accounts for the economic contributions thus far from coal, nor does it countenance expanding coal production, North America’s third great hydrocarbon resource. Some 600,000 jobs are associated with the coal industry, a fuel that already contributes some $60 billion annually to the U.S. economy, not the least of which is the increasingly vital role of low-cost electricity in an information centric economy. 41 The U.S. uses about three BBOE of coal per year, while the world consumes about 20 BBOE of coal annually. Expanding coal exports by an amount comparable with the increase in the oil and gas sectors would add several hundred thousand more jobs and several hundred billion more dollars in cumulative tax receipts. 42 While expanding hydrocarbon production will require significant investment, it will be supplied by the private sector, generating benefits to the public sector, to private citizens, and to businesses. These kinds of benefits, which accrue without cost to taxpayers, come at a particularly important time, considering the current state of persistent unemployment and underemployment, the losses in net worth for many citizens, and the budget deficits in most states and the federal government. Economic benefits from expanding hydrocarbon production will be felt widely given the structural and geographic diversity of hydrocarbon resources and the associated industries. In contrast to other parts of the world, benefits here won’t flow to a handful of oligarchs but will involve thousands of businesses and ripple broadly throughout the economy. Expanding hydrocarbon production may be the single most important opportunity for near-term economic growth in North America and a beneficial resetting of energy geopolitics.</span>
US decline causes nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>
We have strong statistical support
Royal 10 Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin, 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that ‘future expectation of trade’ is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002, p. 89)Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. ‘Diversionary theory’ suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a ‘rally around the flag’ effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>



===Contention Three- Solvency=== 
No icebreaker policy now- Coast Guard is not receiving enough money
Beilinson 12 (Jerry, 2012, deputy editor of popular mechanics, and former senior editor of National Geographic Adventure, “Why the U.S. Must Build More Icebreakers Now”, [[http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/engineering/infrastructure/why-the-us-must-build-more-icebreakers-now-6693195]],)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">When politicians argue over President Obama’s new 2013 budget proposal, one thing that should escape criticism is the $8 million to be spent on designing a new polar-class icebreaker for the Coast Guard. The hard part will follow: It will cost nearly $1 billion to actually build the ship, and it’s $1 billion that Congress needs to find. The United States is the world’s colossus when it comes to every other kind of military hardware, yet it has just one functioning icebreaker: the medium-strength USCGC Healy, which is primarily used for research. The ship made headlines recently for breaking open a route to the Alaskan town of Nome to aid in the delivery of much-needed fuel. It was a great mission, but it may have left an overly upbeat impression of American capabilities. The country also owns two heavy-duty icebreakers: One of the aging vessels is being decommissioned, and the other is being refurbished after years of disuse. That’s not good enough. While it’s encouraging to finally see some progress being made in the current budget proposal, the problem is far from solved—and the United States has national interests in icy waters. Here are three things to know about America’s icebreaking capabilities. 1. America’s huge northern coast is barely patrolled. Coast Guard cutters are stationed in the Bering Sea, and C-130s take infrequent flights over American waters beyond the North Slope. However, the United States does not have what you’d call a persistent maritime presence in the Arctic, a region with increasing geopolitical importance. Most of the time, there are no patrol ships or planes up there at all. It’s ironic, but the warming Arctic has actually increased demand for icebreakers. The Coast Guard needs more of the ships to prepare for search-and-rescue missions, oil-spill response (offshore drilling by Shell could commence in the Beaufort and Chukchi Seas this summer), law enforcement, and plain old flag-waving in northern waters. These ships are also needed for science. The United States is a leader in oceanography, climate investigations, and all kinds of polar studies, thanks partly to the National Science Foundation’s first-rate support of research. (In fact, the NSF has overseen the budget for maintaining icebreakers since 2006; the proposed budget properly puts that responsibility back with the military.) But with just one or two working icebreakers, there’s no way the NSF and Coast Guard can accomplish all they need to. When the Healy churned its way to Alaska to help deliver fuel, its maintenance schedule was thrown off. As a result, scientific projects may have to be delayed this summer. To deliver supplies to America’s McMurdo Station in Antarctica each year, the NSF has been relying on foreign-flagged vessels. As PM reported last July, Sweden’s move to pull its icebreaker Oden off the McMurdo job put the entire 2011–2012 research season in jeopardy. NSF scrambled and eventually was able to commission a Russian vessel. This feels a lot like the situation in space: With the retirement of the space shuttle, the United States can’t fly astronauts to the International Space Station without a lift from Russian rockets. Now, it appears, the country can’t supply its main Antarctic base without Russian help, either. Building up America’s fleet of icebreakers will resolve such situations while allowing the Coast Guard to react to a changing world. 2. The U.S. is falling behind. China, a country with no Arctic coast, is building icebreakers—and that should get America’s attention. It’s one thing for Russia, with the world’s longest Arctic coastline, to operate a couple dozen of the ships. (Fortunately, they’re available for leasing, at a price.) It’s understandable, maybe, for Finland, Sweden, and Canada to surpass the United States in this area. But why is China constructing an 8000-ton vessel capable of breaking through 4.5 ft of ice at a steady clip, to join the XueLong, its existing ice-class vessel? In fact, China’s interest is unsurprising given its role as a world economic power. Commercial ships are already traversing the Northern Sea Route above Russia, carrying goods between Europe and East Asia. Often, icebreakers go along as insurance against bad conditions. And soon, ships will start carrying liquefied natural gas from Norway along the route. Traffic through the Northwest Passage above Canada is building more slowly, and talk of the Arctic sea routes competing with the Suez Canal is overblown. Nevertheless, the Bering Strait between Alaska and Russia is already getting crowded. According to Rear Adm. Thomas P. Ostebo, who commands the U.S. Coast Guard in Alaska, about 1000 vessel transits take place in the Strait each summer. That’s America’s backyard. </span>




Even if it takes a while to build new icebreakers, we could lease them in the short term for surge capabilities
Rausnitz 8/12 (Zach Rausnitz- associate editor for the Government Groups at FierceMarkets- citing Admiral Robert Papp- Top service official, responsible for all world-wide Coast Guard activities, and oversees 42,000 active duty military and 8,000 civilian full-time employees; 8,000 reserve military part-time employees; and 30,000 civilian auxiliary volunteers, August 8 2012, “Papp: The Coast Guard can't lease all its icebreakers”, http://www.fiercehomelandsecurity.com/story/papp-coast-guard-cant-lease-all-its-icebreakers/2012-08-09)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Leasing icebreakers from the private sector for surge capability could be useful, but the Coast Guard should have one or two icebreakers of its own, Commandant Adm. Robert Papp said Aug. 6. The Coast Guard tends to build and operate ships for more than 30 years. A lease over that time period would cost much more than owning the ships from the start, Papp said at a field hearing the Senate Appropriations subcommittee on homeland security held in Kodiak, Alaska. Papp said the Coast Guard has done a "rudimentary" business case analysis of leased icebreakers. An icebreaker needed for only a few years could make financial sense because maintenance costs wouldn't be as much of a concern, he said. The legal implications of leasing are unclear, though. A leased icebreaker might not be usable for law enforcement or defense operations where a sovereign military vessel is needed, Papp said. The current fleet of icebreakers is in "woeful condition," Papp said. USCGC Healy is 12 years old and in good shape. But Papp noted that the other two icebreakers, USCGC Polar Star and USCGC Polar Sea, are in "dreadful condition" and well past their service. Polar Star is undergoing refurbishment and should resume operations in 2013. Papp said he he expects Polar Star and Healy to last another decade until the Coast Guard can build a new icebreaker, which he estimated will cost between $800 million and $1 billion. The Coast Guard is preparing for new responsibilities in the Arctic. In July, it launched an unprecedented 4-month service deployment to the Arctic, an effort it calls Arctic Shield 2012. Global warming has caused once-impassable portions of the Arctic Ocean to be open to increased shipping traffic. Papp compared the situation to that of a city that acquires new land but doesn't increase its police and fire departments. The Coast Guard now has responsibilities in places where no human activity previously took place, he said.</span>

Your timeframe evidence doesn’t assume the aff- it would take two years tops for development
RT Business 12
(RT Business “Russia to build the world’s biggest icebreaker” July 3, 2012 [[http://rt.com/business/news/russia-icebreaker-arctic-ice-293/]] accessed on 7/3/12 SA
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The world's biggest atomic icebreaker will cost Russia an estimated $1.1 billion, with construction to start in 2013. The mega-ton ship will be capable of breaking 4 meters thick ice to help explore the Arctic shelf. Atomflot – a sister company of Rosatom – will build the ice breaking ship, and hopes to have it ready to sail in 2015. “This icebreaker will clear the way for other vessels in Russia’s Arctic as well as tag them along the Yenisei and Ob rivers”, Atomflot told Izvestya newspaper. The new Icebreaker will be granted the highest ice class – 9, meaning the ship will be able to break ice thicker than 4 meters in the Arctic area all year round.</span>




Icebreaker missions are inevitable – Russia would do them if we didn’t which non-uniques your turns
Ariel Cohen 11, Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security @ the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, and Anton Altman, Foundation Research Volunteer, 6-18-11, “Russia’s Arctic Claims: Neither LOST nor Forgotten” Heritage Foundation, [[http://blog.heritage.org/2011/08/16/russias-arctic-claims-neither-lost-nor-forgotten/]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The Arctic is becoming the “wild west” of the 21st century, and the Russians have been quick to claim a good part of it as their birthright. The Russian state is after 380,000 square miles of this final frontier, which may store an estimated one-quarter of the world’s untapped hydrocarbon reserves. Moscow is expected to submit its claim to the United Nations for arbitration under the Law of the Sea Treaty (LOST) within the next couple of months. Russia’s scramble for the Arctic’s minerals was on display for all to behold when Artur Chilingarov, a renowned explorer and Deputy Chairman of the Duma, planted a titanium Russian flag beneath the North Pole in 2007 under Vladimir Putin’s orders. Putin also went on a mission to the High North to track and tag polar bears, highlighting Russia’s Arctic policy priorities. Russia initiated its claim through the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf (CLCS) in 2001—six years earlier. To boost this claim, this July the Russian research ship Akademik Fyodorov, accompanied by a nuclear-powered icebreaker, set off to prove that the Siberian continental shelf connects to underwater Arctic ridges by completing underwater mapping of the area in question. If confirmed, this may boost Russia’s claims to the Arctic continental shelf. Other members of the Arctic Council—the U.S., Canada, Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Iceland, and Finland—may stand to lose if the CLCS approves Russian claims in the High North. Moscow has an unquestionable head start on the rest of the world, and it is not shy about investing in its ambitions. At least six new icebreakers and Sabetta, a new year-round port on the arctic shores—costing $33 billion—are on the agenda, but Prime Minister Putin has said the Kremlin is “open for a dialogue with our foreign partners and with all our neighbors in the Arctic region, but of course we will defend our own geopolitical interests firmly and consistently.” Or as they said in Soviet times, “What is mine is mine, and what is yours is negotiable.” The Arctic is of vital geopolitical importance not just to Russia, but to the entire world. It has enormous quantities of hydrocarbon energy and other natural resources, and as the Arctic is no longer completely icebound, in summertime it may become an important transportation route vital to U.S. national security. Despite this, at present the U.S. has made virtually no effort to strengthen its position in the frozen final frontier. The chief concern is America’s lack of icebreakers—even Canada and Finland have more than the United States. Icebreakers are vital to exploring the Arctic and enforceng one’s sovereignty there. As of 2010, Russia had 29 icebreakers in total and was building more. The United States had two (including one that is obsolete), with no plans to expand. The Heritage Foundation has exposed this problem extensively: The United States has significant geopolitical and geo-economic interests in the High North, but the lack of policy attention and insufficient funding have placed the U.S. on track to abdicate its national interests in this critical region. The United States must strengthen its position in the Arctic and make its interests clear to friend and foe alike. Washington should reach out to the Arctic Council members to block Russia’s expansion plans at the U.N. Meanwhile, the U.S. should fund and build its icebreaking squadron and deploy it in Alaska. Russia’s Arctic aspirations are a serious geopolitical challenge for U.S. and allied interests. America’s security and economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on U.S. ability to access polar waters and the Arctic Ocean bed.</span>



Icebreakers, with Coast Guard oversight solve
NRC, 7 (National Research Council’s Polar Research Board, Congressional Recommendation Panel On Polar Issues, “Polar Icebreakers in a Changing World: An Assessment of U.S. Needs”, [[http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11753&page=R1]], ACC: 9.24.11, p. 1)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The principal objective of the U.S. Coast Guard’s polar ice operations role is to support U.S. interests in the polar regions by providing the icebreaker operating time and capabilities required by the U.S. Coast Guard and user agencies in polar regions. This objective is selected as the U.S. Coast Guard’s long-term first priority because Coast Guard icebreakers are the only national icebreaking resources that can reliably accomplish national objectives in the polar regions. Although, the U.S. Coast Guard has included polar icebreaking as part of its national defense role, polar operations have in fact spanned all of the mission areas to some degree. The U.S. Coast Guard polar icebreakers have been tasked at various times to support the national objectives in the polar regions by (1) providing platforms for scientific research in the Arctic and Antarctic; (2) performing logistical and supply activities in the Arctic and Antarctic; (3) providing support for resource exploration, shipping demonstration projects, and research, development, and testing projects in the Arctic; (4) performing military missions in the Arctic; (5) supporting diplomatic missions related to U.S. strategic interests; and (6) coordinating an international exchange of information on ice operations. Even before the effects of environmental changes were widely recognized, the Arctic was a target for scientific inquiry as one of the least explored areas of the planet. It seems clear that the rapid environmental changes now under way will continue to require active scientific observation and study. While science support is not exclusively a U.S. Coast Guard mission, oceanographic research is directed by statute and has been part of the service’s Arctic operations since John Muir sailed with the Revenue Cutter CORWIN in 1884. Science support remains a compatible mission for U.S. Coast Guard-operated icebreakers. U.S. icebreaker presence in the Arctic, for any or all of the potential missions discussed above, would synergistically enhance the ability to conduct scientific sampling and observation. In yet another area of competition, robust marine research capabilities in the Arctic will also bolster the international standing of U.S. scientists and research programs, as well as preserve the benefits of applied research. The U.S. Coast Guard’s science support role, primarily through logistics in McMurdo Sound, is addressed in U.S. Coast Guard statutory authorities. The presence of U.S. Coast Guard icebreakers in the Antarctic every year brings a variety of additional national capabilities to the region, not the least of which is a visible maritime presence. The need for future U.S. Coast Guard presence in Antarctica could unfold in three possible ways. First, increased geopolitical competition in Antarctica—perhaps manifested by more aggressive activities by other nations or even outright abrogation of the Antarctic Treaty—might call for a more forceful and visible U.S. presence. U.S. Coast Guard units would be obvious candidates for such a presence in Antarctic coastal areas. A second need might result from extensions of the Antarctic Treaty system, or other international agreements, aimed at managing Antarctic activities such as fishing or other resource exploitation. Again, U.S. Coast Guard capabilities would offer an on-scene solution. Finally, Antarctic tourism is growing rapidly and involves thousands of American tourists sailing on foreign-flag vessels in an area with no sovereign regime of safety, security, or environmental regulation and enforcement. These are all areas of U.S. Coast Guard responsibility and expertise, and changes in the dynamics of Antarctic tourism could require U.S. federal action to protect American citizens. The likelihood of any of the foregoing possibilities is difficult to assess, but all could be accommodated by continued U.S. Coast Guard icebreaking support in the Antarctic.</span>



=Round 2= 
Neg v.s Whitney Young DV (Waterway/Port investment- econ/navy w/ south china sea, territory disputes, and Asian naval arms race impacts)

FOR ALL NEG ROUNDS WE WILL POST THE EVIDENCE READ ON WHATEVER THE 2NR WAS- IF YOU NEED ANYTHING ASK ASK BEFORE THE ROUND

===Strategy:=== 
T-maintenance
CIR- heg impact (1NR)
Food prices DA
Consumption K
China FDI CP w/ Relations NB (2NC/R)
Case D


===FDI CP 1NC:=== 
The United States Department of Commerce, specifically SelectUSA, should facilitate and provide assistance to Chinese investment for a substantial increase in investment in port and water infrastructure sufficient to support a substantial increase in Chinese investment for a substantial increase in investment in port and water infrastructure.

The counterplan is key to attract Chinese investors to the plan
Budnick 11 (Andew Budnick, et al., the Princeton Task Force on Chinese Investment in the United States, “Economic Patriotism: How to Deal with Chinese Investment,” Woodrow Wilson School of International Affairs, Princeton University, December 2011, http://www.princeton.edu/~smeunier/Princeton_Task_Force_Report_Final_2011)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">SelectUSA does not receive funding comparable to equivalent agencies in peer countries. While partially a product of individual states and private groups courting investment, under the tenets upon which SelectUSA was founded, SelectUSA should expand its operations, becoming a universal point of entry and reference for firms seeking to invest in the United States. Foreign investors–particularly the Chinese–face few formal investment restrictions, but the process for investment can be daunting, with both bureaucratic red tape and cultural differences. Improvements to SelectUSA should be focused on two main programs: Program 1: SelectUSA needs to highlight that the CFIUS process is in fact the best of its kind in the world, and that it treats all countries the same way with an end result that is often more fair than in other countries. If necessary, SelectUSA should also direct firms to CFIUS and provide them with necessary information. Program 2: SelectUSA needs to facilitate investment by cutting bureaucratic red tape and providing assistance to new foreign firms. Simple bureaucratic hurdles such as getting visas frustrate many investors. Moreover, Chinese firms once inside the US often face challenges operating in mature markets. Benefits: We need to ensure that Chinese inflows of capital are not diverted to the economies of peer competitors. By having programs that target and assist investors–particularly the Chinese–we would pave the way for more Chinese investment. Furthermore, by helping Chinese firms adjust and adapt results in fewer failures of future investment, the cost may be justified by the benefit of no domestic backlashes to failed investments in the future. Costs: Right now, SelectUSA is underfunded and minimally staffed. While the website does a good job of providing testimonials and referring firms to incentives, it does not do nearly as much as it was spelled out in its original mandate. For example, the Netherlands Foreign Investment Agency (NFIA), the Dutch equivalent of SelectUSA, offers services such as assistance in finding joint-venture partners and in establishment. Though the costs of expanding SelectUSA would likely be significant in order to compete with peer countries, the benefits that come with future investment greatly outweigh these costs.</span>

Solves the case and doesn’t link to politics
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Richter 11</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (Stephan Richter, publisher and editor-in-chief of The Globalist, and President of The Globalist Research Center, and a former Congressional Fellow of the American Political Science Association, J.D., University of Bonn, Germany, “Yes, There Will Be a U.S. Infrastructure Bank,” The Globalist, 3-16-2011, [[http://www.theglobalist.com/storyid.aspx?StoryId=9039]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">For all the public clamoring about investing in U.S. infrastructure, the one thing that stands out is that turning this proposition into reality ought to be a no-brainer. And yet it remains a highly contentious issue in the U.S. body politic. Stephan Richter explains why — and maps out a surprising solution to the present conundrum. The list of eminent American citizens and institutions that have tried to move the infrastructure issue forward is long and illustrious. It includes the venerable American Society of Civil Engineers, which in 2009 estimated that it would cost $2.2 trillion over five years to improve the country’s infrastructure to an acceptable level. As every homeowner knows, the longer one postpones necessary repairs, the more expensive and expansive they will eventually become. And yet, amid the current anti-spending fervor in the U.S. Congress, the common-sense notion of investing in the country's infrastructure is highly contentious. Vilifying a proper government planning role in this process and arguing that the private sector knows best and that private citizens should be able to keep their hard-earned money makes for a good sound bite and short-term political gains, but at its core it is a stance that is anything but conservative. In fact, it is a radical gamble. The last time infrastructure spending was in vogue was the 1950s, when President Eisenhower, a former military man, was in office and built the federal highway system. True, there was a period in the 1990s when firms in the United States invested without abandon and the backbone of the Internet was built out massively. That was achieved with investment capital provided by gullible U.S. private-sector investors and those of other nations. However, this investment wave — for all its presumably efficient private-sector roots — resulted in many a bankruptcy. Global Crossing, anyone? It was a much-hyped investment, but the rollout and building process was not rational or well-planned. And true, during the Clinton Administration (thanks to Al Gore), an effort was made to build a national broadband system — via surcharges on people's landline, cellular and cable bills. Does anyone need a reminder that, well over a decade later, we're still at it, particularly when it comes to cell phone technology? The complaints about shaky 3G coverage even within the Washington, D.C., area are stunning reminders about how much is still to be done, especially when compared to the wireless data networks in places such as South Korea. Many Americans might be surprised to hear that this state of affairs leaves China's top leaders concerned that the United States is falling too far behind, simply because its political system has such a hard time bringing about rational, long-term policy decisions. These leaders know that the fates of the United States and China are joined at the hip. With over $1 trillion in U.S. Treasury holdings, the Chinese government has a vested interest in the future performance of the United States. A country eating its seed corn by not investing enough in public infrastructure and instead relying on the inherent "wisdom" of private investors is a cause for concern. At the same time, the Chinese feel that they cannot in good conscience invest in more Treasury paper. What’s the point, they ask, in funding a defense budget the United States could not otherwise afford — or bankrolling cash-flow deficits in the Social Security accounts of the baby boom generation? Given all that, China's leaders must be pondering a truly revolutionary thought: How about using their dollar-denominated funds to capitalize an Infrastructure Bank for the United States (IBUS), as well as underwriting many of its upcoming investment projects? At first glance, such a step would seem a heretical move for China's still-communist leaders. However, today’s alliances are no longer so much a matter of ideology, but of cash-flow recycling and balance sheet optimization. While the investment needs within China remain big, the country’s leaders do have a plan in place to fund them for decades. Whatever happens at home, they also have to make rational use of all the U.S. dollars they earn from exports to the United States. What nobler, more rational and long-term-oriented purpose than to fund the IBUS? China, after all, is a rapidly aging nation, with lots of financing needs to support its large population in old age. How better to meet those needs than by investing in a demographically young nation now (the United States) — and then waiting for the returns on that investment to flow back to China over time? Not even the Chinese military could be opposed to this plan. While it might superficially be seen as a self-defeating, if not traitorous, act to strengthen one's primary opponent, those generals are business savvy these days. While the generals in China, as well as the leaders of the Chinese Community Party, may well be ready to underwrite the IBUS, U.S. politicians can be counted upon to go apoplectic if such a proposal were ever to come to pass. Still, it might turn out that China's plan for a truly stunning foreign mission to rebuild U.S. infrastructure will come to pass one way or another. In the end, it will be an amazing moment in the annals of global capitalism when China — presumably the developing country, but really an old, mature power thinking about the global system and its own needs in a very long-term manner — will come to the aid of that upstart, the United States. While being presumed to be a mature industrial democracy, the United States really is a youngish country — and one that still has to contend with its errant ways. But “Uncle Wen,” his colleagues and successors have a clear and comforting message for Washington and the entire United States: “Don't worry, America. From our own history, we know about losing one's path and how painful it can be for a country and its entire population — and also the world. “We Chinese,” Premier Wen Jiabao says when he is daydreaming, “are here to help. Let's hope you Americans are enlightened enough to accept our assistance. “Otherwise, you Americans will be in for a serious detour, one that will not only shortchange the future prospects of many Americans, but of the entire world economy. Let's hope that outcome can be avoided.”</span>


CP is key to US and Chinese economies and cements relations
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Marchick 12</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (David M. Marchick, Managing Director and global head of external affairs, Carlyle Group, author of U.S. National Security and Foreign Direct Investment; Daniel R. Bowles is an associate at the Carlyle Group and assisted in the preparation of this article; “Fostering Greater Chinese Investment in the United States,” Council on Foreign Relations Press, Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 13, February 2012, http://www.cfr.org/china/fostering-greater-chinese-investment-united-states/p27310)</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">China recently became the world's second-largest economy and has emerged as the world's largest exporter and second-largest destination for foreign direct investment (FDI). In the past two years, China alone has contributed 16 percent of global GDP growth. Yet despite its rapid economic rise, China lags in one important area: outbound foreign direct investment (OFDI). China's OFDI has grown rapidly, but it remains relatively low—lower even than that of Ireland and Singapore. Historically, the United States has garnered approximately 15 percent of total global OFDI flows, yet currently it receives only 2 percent of China's OFDI. President Barack Obama's meetings in February 2012 with Xi Jinping, China's vice president and soon-to-be leader, provide an opportunity to address this issue and establish an economic framework to help rebalance the global economy. Creating a positive economic framework will help mitigate the inevitable stresses on the U.S.-China relationship as leaders in both political parties sharpen their anti-China rhetoric during the 2012 U.S. election. China's outward investment has substantial room to grow, and the United States has the potential to capture a larger share of it—an outcome that would benefit the U.S. and Chinese economies and strengthen the bilateral economic relationship. China could be transformed into a large overseas investor, not just an exporter. At the core of that framework should be an unequivocal policy of fostering additional Chinese investment into the United States, so long as particular investments do not compromise U.S. national security interests.</span>

Relations key to prevent multiple scenarios for planetary destruction – and check global conflict escalation
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Cohen 9</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;"> (William S. Cohen, chairman and CEO of The Cohen Group, strategic business consulting firm, former U.S. secretary of defense; Maurice R. Greenberg, chairman and CEO, C.V. Starr & Co., former chairman and CEO of AIG; “Smart Power in U.S.-China Relations,” http://csis.org/files/media/csis/pubs/090309_mcgiffert_uschinasmartpower_web.pdf) </span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The evolution of Sino-U.S. relations over the next months, years, and decades has the potential to have a greater impact on global security and prosperity than any other bilateral or multilateral arrangement. In this sense, many analysts consider the U.S.-China diplomatic relationship to be the most influential in the world. Without question, strong and stable U.S. alliances provide the foundation for the protection and promotion of U.S. and global interests. Yet within that broad framework, the trajectory of U.S.-China relations will determine the success, or failure, of efforts to address the toughest global challenges: global financial stability, energy security and climate change, nonproliferation, and terrorism, among other pressing issues. Shepherding that trajectory in the most constructive direction possible must therefore be a priority for Washington and Beijing. Virtually no major global challenge can be met without U.S.-China cooperation. The uncertainty of that future trajectory and the “strategic mistrust” between leaders in Washington and Beijing necessarily concerns many experts and policymakers in both countries. Although some U.S. analysts see China as a strategic competitor—deliberately vying with the United States for energy resources, military superiority, and international political influence alike— analysis by the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) has generally found that China uses its soft power to pursue its own, largely economic, international agenda primarily to achieve its domestic objectives of economic growth and social stability.1 Although Beijing certainly has an eye on Washington, not all of its actions are undertaken as a counterpoint to the United States. In addition, CSIS research suggests that growing Chinese soft power in developing countries may have influenced recent U.S. decisions to engage more actively and reinvest in soft-power tools that have atrophied during the past decade. To the extent that there exists a competition between the United States and China, therefore, it may be mobilizing both countries to strengthen their ability to solve global problems. To be sure, U.S. and Chinese policy decisions toward the respective other power will be determined in large part by the choices that leaders make about their own nation’s interests at home and overseas, which in turn are shaped by their respective domestic contexts. Both parties must recognize—and accept—that the other will pursue a foreign policy approach that is in its own national interest. Yet, in a globalized world, challenges are increasingly transnational, and so too must be their solutions. As demonstrated by the rapid spread of SARS from China in 2003, pandemic flu can be spread rapidly through air and via international travel. Dust particulates from Asia settle in Lake Tahoe. An economic downturn in one country can and does trigger an economic slowdown in another. These challenges can no longer be addressed by either containment or isolation. What constitutes the national interest today necessarily encompasses a broader and more complex set of considerations than it did in the past. The Global Good As a general principle, the United States seeks to promote its national interest while it simultaneously pursues what the CSIS Commission on Smart Power called in its November 2007 report the “global good.”2 This approach is not always practical or achievable, of course. But neither is it pure benevolence. Instead, a strategic pursuit of the global good accrues concrete benefits for the United States (and others) in the form of building confidence, legitimacy, and political influence in key countries and regions around the world in ways that enable the United States to better confront global and transnational challenges. In short, the global good comprises those things that all people and governments want but have traditionally not been able to attain in the absence of U.S. leadership. Despite historical, cultural, and political differences between the United States and China, Beijing’s newfound ability, owing to its recent economic successes, to contribute to the global good is a matter for common ground between the two countries. Today there is increasing recognition that no major global challenge can be addressed effectively, much less resolved, without the active engagement of—and cooperation between—the United States and China. The United States and China—the world’s first- and third-largest economies—are inextricably linked, a fact made ever more evident in the midst of the current global financial crisis. Weak demand in both the United States and China, previously the twin engines of global growth, has contributed to the global economic downturn and threatens to ignite simmering trade tensions between the two countries. Nowhere is the interconnectedness of the United States and China more clear than in international finance. China has $2 trillion worth of largely U.S. dollar-denominated foreign exchange reserves and is the world’s largest holder—by far—of U.S. government debt. Former treasury secretary Henry M. Paulson and others have suggested that the structural imbalances created by this dynamic fueled the current economic crisis. Yet, China will almost certainly be called on to purchase the lion’s share of new U.S. debt instruments issued in connection with the U.S. stimulus and recovery package. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton’s February 23,2009, reassurance to Beijing that U.S. markets remain safe and her call for continued Chinese investment in the U.S. bond market as a means to help both countries, and the world, emerge from global recession underscored the shared interest—and central role—that both countries have in turning around the global economy quickly. Although China’s considerable holdings of U.S. debt have been seen as a troubling problem, they are now being perceived as a necessary part of a global solution. Similarly, as the world’s two largest emitters of greenhouse gases, China and the United States share not only the collateral damage of energy-inefficient economic growth, but a primary responsibility to shape any ultimate global solutions to climate change. To date, cooperation has been elusive, owing as much to Washington’s reluctance as to Beijing’s intransigence. Painting China as the environmental bogeyman as an excuse for foot-dragging in policymaking is no longer an option; for its part, China, as the world’s top polluter, must cease playing the developing-economy card. Yet energy security and climate change remain an area of genuine opportunity for joint achievement. Indeed, U.S.-China cooperation in this field is a sine qua non of any response to the energy and climate challenges. The sheer size of the Chinese economy means that collaboration with the United States could set the de facto global standards for efficiency and emissions in key economic sectors such as industry and transportation. Climate change also provides an area for cooperation in previously uncharted policy waters, as in emerging Arctic navigational and energy exploration opportunities. Washington and Beijing also share a deep and urgent interest in international peace and stability. The resumption of U.S.-China military contacts is a positive development. As two nuclear powers with worldwide economic and strategic interests, both countries want to minimize instability and enhance maritime security, as seen by parallel antipiracy missions in the waters off Somalia. Joint efforts in support of United Nations peacekeeping, nonproliferation, and counterterrorism offer critical areas for bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Certainly, regional and global security institutions such as the Six-Party Talks concerning North Korea or the UN Security Council require the active engagement of both Washington and Beijing. Even more broadly, crisis management in geographic regions of mutual strategic interest like the Korean peninsula, Iran, or Burma require much more Sino-U.S. communication if the two countries are to avoid miscalculation and maximize opportunities to minimize human suffering. Increasing the number of mid-level military-to-military exchanges would help in this regard. The United States and China could do more to cooperate on law enforcement to combat drug trafficking and organized crime in Western China. Afghanistan is competing with Burma as the main provider of narcotics to China; Washington could use its influence with the International Security Assistance Force in Kabul to develop a joint antinarcotics program. This could potentially build networks and joint capabilities that might be useful for U.S.-China cooperation on the issue of Pakistan. In addition, Washington should also encourage NATO-China cooperation along the Afghan border. Collaborating under the auspices of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) might provide an additional framework for Beijing and Washington to address Central Asian security issues in a cooperative manner. The SCO, which includes Pakistan as an observer and will convene a multinational conference on Afghanistan in March 2009, has long made curbing narcoterrorism in Afghanistan a priority. In addition, the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency and the Chinese AntiNarcotics Bureau should expand cooperation on interdiction and prosecution of heroin and meth traffickers. To be sure, there are a number of areas of serious divergence between Washington and Beijing. This should surprise no one. The United States has disagreements with even its allies. Two large powers with vastly different histories, cultures, and political systems are bound to have challenges. History has shown, however, that the most effective way of addressing issues is for the U.S. and Chinese governments to engage in quiet diplomacy rather than public recrimination. In the U.S.-China context, there is often little to be gained—and much to be lost in terms of trust and respect—by a polarizing debate. Any differences, moreover, must not necessarily impede Sino-U.S. cooperation when both sides share strong mutual interests. F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote that “the test of a first-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function.”3 Effective policy toward China by the United States, and vice versa, will require this kind of dual-minded intelligence. Moreover, working together on areas of mutual and global interest will help promote strategic trust between China and the United States, facilitating possible cooperation in other areas. Even limited cooperation on specific areas will help construct additional mechanisms for bilateral communication on issues of irreconcilable disagreement. In fact, many of the toughest challenges in U.S.-China relations in recent years have been the result of unforeseen events, such as the accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade in May 1999 and the EP-3 reconnaissance plane collision in April 2001. Building trust and finding workable solutions to tough problems is the premise behind the Obama administrations foreign policy of smart power, as articulated by Secretary of State Clinton. Smart power is based on, as Secretary Clinton outlined in her confirmation hearing, the fundamental belief that “We must use ... the full range of tools at our disposal—diplomatic, economic, military, political and cultural—picking the right tool, or combination of tools, for each situation.”4 As the CSIS Commission on Smart Power noted in November 2007, “Smart Power is neither hard nor soft—it is the skillful combination of both___It is an approach that underscores the necessity of a strong military, but also invests heavily in alliances, partnerships and institutions at all levels... ”5 As such, smart power necessarily mandates a major investment in a U.S.-China partnership on key issues. The concept enjoys broad support among the Chinese and American people and, by promoting the global good, it reaps concrete results around the world. There should be no expectation that Washington and Beijing will or should agree on all, or even most, questions. But the American and Chinese people should expect their leaders to come together on those vital issues that require their cooperation. U.S.-China partnership, t</span>


===Perm Evidence:=== 
Definitions:
First, its—
They have to mandate __[[#|investment]]__ from the USFG
Manderino, 73 (Justice for the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, Sigal, Appellant, v. Manufacturers Light and Heat Co., No. 26, Jan. T., 1972, Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, 450 Pa. 228; 299 A.2d 646; 1973 Pa. LEXIS 600; 44 Oil & Gas Rep. 214, lexis)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">On its face, the written instrument granting easement rights in this case is ambiguous. The same sentence which refers to the right to lay a 14 inch pipeline (singular) has a later reference to "said lines" (plural). The use of the plural "lines" makes no sense because the only previous reference has been to a "line" (singular). The writing is additionally ambiguous because other key words which are "also may change the size of its pipes" are dangling in that the possessive pronoun "its" before the word "pipes" does not have any subject preceding, to which the possessive pronoun refers. The dangling phrase is the beginning of a sentence, the first word of which does not begin with a capital letter as is customary in normal English [***10] usage. Immediately preceding the "sentence" which does not begin with a capital letter, there appears a dangling [*236] semicolon which makes no sense at the beginning of a sentence and can hardly relate to the preceding sentence which is already properly punctuated by a closing period. The above deviations from accepted grammatical usage make difficult, if not impossible, a clear understanding of the words used or the intention of the parties. This is particularly true concerning the meaning of a disputed phrase in the instrument which states that the grantee is to pay damages from ". . . the relaying, maintaining and operating said pipeline. . . ." The instrument is ambiguous as to what the words ". . . relaying . . . said pipeline . . ." were intended to mean.</span>


That means the aff has to defend the federal government increases its own __[[#|funding]]__
Warner, 11 – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, [[http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)]]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation investment’ means Federal funding for a project included in a transportation program. ‘(6) TRANSPORTATION PROGRAM- The term ‘transportation program’ means a plan or strategy prepared by a metropolitan planning organization or a State for transportation systems and facilities in the metropolitan planning area or the State, including a transportation plan, transportation improvement program, statewide transportation plan, or statewide transportation improvement program developed under section 5303 or 5304 of this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.</span>


Second, investment--

And the CP is just advice and advocacy
US Department of Commerce 12 (“President Obama Announces First Annual SelectUSA Investment Summit,” 2-15-2012, http://www.commerce.gov/blog/2012/02/15/president-obama-announces-first-annual-selectusa-investment-summit)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Launched by Executive Order in June 2011, the Department of Commerce’s SelectUSA program is the first-ever federal effort to help attract, retain, and expand business investment. Historically, U.S. states and cities have found themselves competing against foreign governments to attract business investments, with the federal government playing only a nominal role in the competition for global investment. Rather than providing new incentives for investment, SelectUSA plays the critical role of advocacy, coordination, facilitation, and information-gathering and –sharing. </span>

Severs immediacy – “should” requires immediate legal effect
Summers ‘94 (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">¶4 The legal question to be resolved by the court is whether the word "should"[[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13|13]] in the May 18 order connotes futurity or may be deemed a ruling in praesenti.[[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14|14]] The answer to this query is not to be divined from rules of grammar;[[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn15|15]] it must be governed by the age-old practice culture of legal professionals and its immemorial language usage. To determine if the omission (from the critical May 18 entry) of the turgid phrase, "and the same hereby is", (1) makes it an in futuro ruling - i.e., an expression of what the judge will or would do at a later stage - or (2) constitutes an in in praesenti resolution of a disputed law issue, the trial judge's intent must be garnered from the four corners of the entire record.[[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn16|16 ]] [CONTINUES – TO FOOTNOTE] [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker2fn13|13]] "Should" not only is used as a "present indicative" synonymous with ought but also is the past tense of "shall" with various shades of meaning not always easy to analyze. See 57 C.J. Shall § 9, Judgments § 121 (1932). O. JESPERSEN, GROWTH AND STRUCTURE OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE (1984); St. Louis & S.F.R. Co. v. Brown, 45 Okl. 143, 144 P. 1075, 1080-81 (1914). For a more detailed explanation, see the Partridge quotation infra note 15. Certain contexts mandate a construction of the term "should" as more than merely indicating preference or desirability. Brown, supra at 1080-81 (jury instructions stating that jurors "should" reduce the amount of damages in proportion to the amount of contributory negligence of the plaintiff was held to imply an obligation and to be more than advisory); Carrigan v. California Horse Racing Board, 60 Wash. App. 79, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=802&box2=P.2D&box3=813|802 P.2d 813]] (1990) (one of the Rules of Appellate Procedure requiring that a party "should devote a section of the brief to the request for the fee or expenses" was interpreted to mean that a party is under an obligation to include the requested segment); State v. Rack, 318 S.W.2d 211, 215 (Mo. 1958) ("should" would mean the same as "shall" or "must" when used in an instruction to the jury which tells the triers they "should disregard false testimony"). [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker2fn14|14]] In praesenti means literally "at the present time." BLACK'S LAW DICTIONARY 792 (6th Ed. 1990). In legal parlance the phrase denotes that which in law is presently or immediately effective, as opposed to something that will or would become effective in the future [in futurol]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]], 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>


DA's to Do Both:
First, crowd-out – empirical research proves the plan’s inclusion trades off with Chinese FDI
Selaya 8 (Pablo Selaya and Eva R. Sunesen, Department of Economics, University of Copenhagen, “Does Foreign Aid Increase Foreign Direct Investment?” Discussion Papers No. 08-04, 2008, http://www.econ.ku.dk/english/research/publications/wp/2008/0804.pdf/)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Due to its potential to transfer knowledge and technology, create jobs, boost overall productivity, and enhance competitiveness and entrepreneurship, attracting FDI to developing countries is essential to contribute to economic growth, development and poverty reduction. Given the emphasis on using ODA as a vehicle for creating a private sector enabling environment, the question of whether or not aid áows induce signiÖcantly more FDI ináows becomes an important and relevant question not only on its own right but also as an essential element in the aid e§ectiveness debate. The results strongly support the hypotheses that aid invested in inputs complementary to physical capital draws in foreign capital, while aid directly invested in physical capital crowds out private foreign investments. While the impact of the two types of aid together is positive, an important policy implication is that the composition of foreign aid matters and that more aid should be directed towards complementary inputs. Such investments improve the absorption capacity of the recipient country and increase MPK in the host country, which allows it to accumulate more foreign capital without experiencing a drop in domestic investments or a áight of foreign capital.</span>

Second, any perception of political interference due to Congressional involvement triggers investor flight
McAllister 11 (Geraldine McAllister and Joel H. Moser, “Beyond treasuries: A foreign direct investment program for U.S. infrastructure,” Columbia FDI Perspectives, No. 46, September 12, 2011, http://www.vcc.columbia.edu/content/beyond-treasuries-foreign-direct-investment-program-us-infrastructure)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">In his jobs address to a joint session of Congress last week, President Obama returned to a familiar theme: a call for nontraditional infrastructure investment as a generator of economic growth and, ultimately, jobs. The President's frequent references to “private investment”[1] and “fully paid”[2] infrastructure are encouraging, yet there is no assurance that domestic private capital investment alone is sufficient to reverse the degradation of the nation’s infrastructure. As host to the largest flows of inward foreign direct investment (FDI), it is time that the United States employs this critical source of capital in tackling the nation’s infrastructure deficit. The use of foreign capital to improve U.S. infrastructure and competitiveness is not without its challenges. First, it requires the government to find a new balance between economic openness and national security concerns – no easy task, particularly with the inclusion of “critical infrastructure”[3]in the definition of national security. Nevertheless, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, dedicated to reviewing the impact of FDI on national security, has garnered significant experience in this area. Devising a legislative and regulatory framework that provides for domestic security without excluding the United States from access to investment in infrastructure is not beyond the capacity of the government. Ultimately, failure to address this challenge will be to the detriment of both U.S. national security and economic interests. A recent Asia Society report notes: “If political interference is not tempered, some of the benefits of Chinese investment…such as job creation, consumer welfare, and even contributions to U.S. infrastructure renewal—risk being diverted to U.S. competitors.”[4] Secondly, such inflows must be encouraged and facilitated - it is not simply a case of allowing FDI flow into U.S. infrastructure. Low levels of political risk and a large market still make the United States an attractive investment destination; yet it is but one possible investment location, and competition is vigorous. The U.S. Government must build a program to attract and incentivize investment in infrastructure – for example, by transferring a portion of the federal budget currently spent on funding municipal bond investor tax incentives for the wealthy toward grants and other incentives, perhaps as part of the federal tax overhaul anticipated in the debt crisis resolution and as contemplated by the Simpson-Bowles commission.</span>

===Solvency Evidence=== 
Chinese FDI brings outsourced jobs back and increases employment while simultaneously increasing competitiveness
(**FDI= Foreign Direct Investment)
Rosen and Hanemann, 11 – professor at Columbia University, Fellow with the Peterson Institute for International Economics, and Senior Advisor for International Economic Policy at the White House National Economic Council and National Security Council, AND* is Research Director at the Rhodium Group, specializing in China’s macroeconomic development and the implications for global trade and investment flows (Daniel & Thilo, “An American Open Door?: Maximising the Benefits of Chinese Foreign Direct investment”, May 2011, http://www.ogilvypr.com/files/anamericanopendoor_china_fdi_study.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">One should never forget the joke about the economist who drowns in a river that was only one inch deep . . . on average! This is simply to say that measurement of aggregate effects can obscure the local implications. Many working Americans believe that globalization has put them at a disadvantage, especially when it comes to ties with China. Therefore, it is critical to look at the impact of FDI from China on local economies. In general, U.S. localities now embrace the benefits of inward FDI because of its beneficial impact on employment, tax bases, and competitiveness. This is why so many states, counties, and municipalities in the United States have set up investment promotion agencies to court foreign investors. In the following paragraphs, we review the evidence on the local impacts of Chinese FDI with a particular focus on whether Chinese investment is equally beneficial as investment from other countries.First, inward FDI can affect local employment. Affiliates of foreign firms employed 6.3 million people in the United States, according to the most recent data from 2008 (about 40% of them in manufacturing), out of a total workforce of 143 million (i.e., 4.4% of U.S. employment). Another important characteristic is that foreign investors tend to pay higher wages on average: in 2008, foreign affiliate payrolls were $452 billion, and the implied annual average of $72,000 was significantly higher than the median U.S. compensation.46 Investment in new greenfield facilities generally is seen as more beneficial in terms of job creation than acquisitions. But takeovers also can generate or save jobs if the new investors revitalize ailing firms or if the postmerger integration leads to an expansion of local capacities. However, postacquisition restructuring also can reduce employment—for example, if a foreign investor buys a company only to transfer technology and other productive assets overseas, or if management is not competent enough to achieve a turnaround. The same effect can happen if the new owner cuts off local suppliers and replaces them with imports from abroad. Such outcomes are part of the adjustment process that increases aggregate efficiency in an economy, but they can mean painful losses in local communities. Chinese firms remain marginal employers in the United States today. According to the BEA, Chinese firms employed around 2,500 people in the United States in 2008. The actual total today is markedly higher, as the official statistics miss some investments; Chinese investment has boomed in the past two years, and recent deals have added a significant number of employees to the payrolls. Chinese investments have a higher propensity to be greenfields, and our deal database suggests that most Chinese manufacturing investment is focused on establishing long-term operations that will create jobs locally (see Box 2). The “insourcing” of production to better serve U.S. consumers and to benefit from local know-how and technology presents a significant opportunity for the United States to bring back jobs that have migrated abroad. Table 3.1 illustrates job creation as Japanese firms evolved from purely exporters to the United States to direct investors. From zero in the 1960s and 1970s, Japanese firms employed more than 300,000 Americans by the end of the 1980s, and by 1997, that figure had grown to more than 800,000, with a total payroll of $39 billion. Downside examples of Chinese firms acquiring U.S. assets to extract technology and shut down local operations are few.47 This makes sense, as China’s weakness as an innovation center is a major factor pushing Chinese firms to the United States in the first place. Nor is there evidence that Chinese firms are aggressively changing the sourcing strategies or import propensity of acquired firms.48 The argument can be made that most U.S. firms targeted by foreign investors already are deeply integrated in global production networks, so if it made sense to source from China or any other place abroad, the company would have already done so before the takeover. We can find no evidence—so far—that Chinese firms are more likely to evince such predatory behavior than multinational corporations from other countries. </span>

We already said yes – and we really want the money
Zhang 12 (Zhang Yuwei, “China pushes for a foundation to fund US roads and rails,” China Daily, 3-6-2012, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/usa/2012-03/06/content_14766762.htm)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Industrial experts point out what the US government lacks most is funding and this is where Chinese companies can step in and help rebuild the US infrastructure. Yuan Ning, president of China Construction America, a wholly owned subsidiary of China State Construction Engineering Corp, said the perfect way for China and the US to collaborate is through a public-private partnership. PPPs are government services or private-business ventures funded and operated through a partnership of the government and one or more private-sector firms. Chinese companies can bring expertise and capital and can work with the US government on various infrastructure projects, Yuan said. "It's a win-win solution." Robert Hormats, US under secretary for economic growth, energy and the environment, agreed that PPPs are a good way to work with Chinese companies in infrastructure projects. "Chinese investment can be really helpful," he told China Daily after the Bloomberg China Conference in New York on Feb 1. "We would love to have more of that, and we will be pursuing that dialogue with the Chinese." China's Commerce Minister Chen Deming said he was impressed by the high quality of US subways and other infrastructure when he visited 20 years ago, but many roads, railways and ports today need renovation. The country hopes to achieve cooperation with the US on infrastructure, he told members of the American Chamber of Commerce last year, adding: "We are willing to turn some of our holdings of your debt into investment in the US, hoping to create jobs for the US." Bill Graves, president of the American Trucking Associations, said the Obama administration and Congress both need to focus on finding funds for infrastructure. "In order to do this efficiently and safely, we need the administration and Congress to come together on a well-funded multiyear highway bill that makes smart investments in roads and bridges with real dollars," he said in response to Obama's State of the Union speech in January, which called for rebuilding US infrastructure.</span>

Solves Ports
Oreanda, 11 – largest news agency in eastern Russia, formerly government owned and operated news company, winner of the Kremlin Cup for outstanding journalism, (“CEO of COSCO Group Speaks at China-US Business Dialog”, Economic News, Information Agency Oreanda, August 35, 2011, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Beijing. OREANDA-NEWS . August 25, 2011. Captain Wei Jiafu, President & CEO of COSCO Group, attended the China-US Business Dialog in Beijing Hotel. The dialog meeting was attended by Chinese Vice President Xi Jinping and the visiting US Vice President Joseph Biden. The dialog, which served as a high-profile platform for interactions between Chinese and American business leaders, was jointly organized by China Council for the Promotion of International Trade ("CCPIT"), US-China Business Council Inc. ("USCBC") and American Chamber of Commerce in China ("AmCham-China"), reported the press-centre of COSCO. In a remark after the speeches by Chinese Vice President Xi and US Vice President Biden, Captain Wei mentioned the maiden voyage made by COSCO's M.V. Liu Lin Hai to the Port of Seattle in April 1979, an event that had broken the 30-year frozen ice of China-US maritime trade. "COSCO's launch of a direct liner service to Boston Port" said Captain Wei, "helped save thousands of port-related jobs in Boston and boosted the growth of local port economy in Massachusetts. He described COSCO's partnership with Massachusetts Port Authority ("Massport") as a typical win-win model of successful business collaboration between China and the US. Captain Wei also highlighted COSCO's reputable joint-venture stevedoring business with SSA ("Stevedoring Services of America Inc"), which, through its sound growth and harmonious cross-cultural management, has brought concrete benefits to the port and shipping community in Long Beach, California. Citing COSCO's role as a good global corporate citizen, Captain Wei also introduced COSCO's efforts to promote port security, green economy, fair competition and high-quality service in the US. "In an era of unprecedented sophistication of world economic and financial status," stressed by Captain Wei, "the business communities of China and the US need to shoulder more responsibilities and to find new areas of win-win cooperation." To achieve that end, Captain Wei put forward three recommendations. Firstly, China and the US should deepen the cooperation in respect of service trade. In particular, Chinese enterprises should be more encouraged to invest in the logistics and port infrastructures of the US. Secondly, Chinese and American business should work together or to join hands with companies from other countries in the search of more global business and investment opportunities. Thirdly, the US exporters should better benefit from the growth of China's consumption market and sell more high-tech products and high-end manufacture goods to China, contributing to the balance of the bilateral trade. Captain Wei finally said, as a sea bridge for China-US trade, COSCO is confident towards mutual trade and investment between China and the US, and is fully committed to the future progress of China-US friendship. Nine other Chinese and American business leaders also spoke at the Dialog, which was presided over by Wan Jifei, Chairman of CCPIT. Apart from COSCO Group, the Dialog was also attended by top executives from China Unicom, COFCO, Suntech Power Co, XEMC, Bank of China, Haier Group, Legend Group, Wanxiang Group, Coca Cola, Caterpiller, GE, Chindex, Corning Inc., DuPont, General Motors (China) Co, JP Morgan, Acorn International, and AmCham-China.</span>


The entire 300 billion dollar sovereign wealth fund is at disposal – and China likes the CP because it allows China to stop taking on U.S. debt

Long 11 – senior staff writer for Reuters, author of MuniLand political blog, (Cate, “Foreigners want America’s public assets”, Reuters, December 5, 2011, http://blogs.reuters.com/muniland/2011/12/05/foreigners-want-americas-public-assets/)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">It seems like foreign governments and corporations are craving U.S. public assets like toll roads, electrical grids and railways. In the case of our largest creditor, the Chinese government, they don’t want any more U.S. Treasuries, but they do want to own the hard assets that comprise our nation’s infrastructure. Reuters Beijing bureau reported [1]: China may channel part of its huge pool of foreign exchange reserves into investment in U.S. infrastructure, including rail and transportation networks, Commerce Minister Chen Deming said on Friday. “China is unwilling to take on too much U.S. government debt. We are willing to turn that money into investment,” he told U.S. Ambassador to China Gary Locke and U.S. businessmen. Chen did not elaborate on how China might channel some of the country’s war chest of $3.2 trillion foreign currency reserves to invest in U.S. infrastructure, such as rail and transportation systems. What the Reuters reporter didn’t mention was that the Obama administration has been urging such investment on the part of the Chinese since their state visit last January, if not before. From the Wall Street Journal [2]: Key Chinese companies are considering stepped-up investment in the U.S., particularly in infrastructure, and the White House is encouraging them to move ahead. The prospects for fresh Chinese investment were discussed at a meeting last week between Chinese business leaders and the American and Chinese presidents during a state visit to Washington. At the meeting, President Barack Obama and the head of China’s Investment Corp. [CIC], the country’s $300 billion sovereign-wealth fund, talked about the Chinese investing in infrastructure projects in the U.S. “The United States is open for investment and would welcome it,” Mr. Obama told the group, which included four Chinese CEOs, 14 American CEOs and Chinese President Hu Jintao. [..] Last fall, a CIC official said the fund would be interested in financing U.S. infrastructure projects as a passive investor, not as a majority owner. “We are advocating that the U.S. government start a program to invest a massive amount of equity, in the form of public and private-equity partnership, in U.S. infrastructure,” Zhou Yuan, head of asset allocation at CIC, said at a conference in New York in October. It’s a good stance for our President to encourage foreign investment. But is it such a great idea for foreign firms to own our most vital infrastructure? In 2006 an enormous controversy rocked Washington when a private firm from Dubai was negotiating a deal simply to operate 22 U.S. ports [3]. A bipartisan opposition centering on national security eventually emerged and killed the arrangement. If the Chinese government wants to invest in U.S. infrastructure, the best place for them to do so is the municipal or corporate bond market where they can buy bonds in water and sewer systems, among other infrastructure assets.</span>



=Round 3= 
Neg vs. Caddo Magnet JM (MOT's- pacific with china and noko war, Iran with iran heg bad and oil shocks)

===Strategy=== 
T-military/"In the US" not in plan text ("In the US" in (ha puns) 1NR)
CIR w/ econ impact
Security K
State CP (2NC/R)
DOD Tradeoff (1/2NR)
Case D

===States Solvency=== 
Military infrastructure can be done by the states
Edwards, 12 -- CATO tax policy studies director
[Chris, "Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers," March 2012, www.downsizinggovernment.org/usace, accessed 4-27-13, mss]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is a federal agency that constructs and maintains a wide range of infrastructure for military and civilian purposes.1 This essay concerns the civilian part of the agency, which employs about 23,000 people and will spend about $9.2 billion in fiscal 2012.2 The civilian part of the Corps—called "civil works"—builds and operates locks, channels, and other navigation infrastructure on river systems. It also builds flood control structures, dredges seaports, manages thousands of recreation sites, and owns and operates hydroelectric power plants across the country. While the Army Corps has built some impressive infrastructure, many of its projects have been economically or environmentally dubious. The agency's activities have often subsidized private interests at the expense of federal taxpayers. Furthermore, the Corps has a history of distorting its cost-benefit analyses in order to justify its projects. The civilian side of the Corps grew out of the engineering expertise gained by the agency's military activities early in the nation's history. In mid-19th century, Congress began adding civilian missions to the Corps in response to political demands and various natural disasters. Today we are left with an agency involved in far flung activities such as beach replenishment, upgrades to city water systems, agriculture irrigation, clean-up of hazardous waste sites, and efforts to revive the Florida Everglades. The Corps has been greatly mismanaged over the decades, with problems ranging from frequent cost overruns on projects to the major engineering failures that contributed to the disaster of Hurricane Katrina. In addition, the dominance of special-interest politics on the agency's activities has resulted in it supporting many wasteful projects. Fortunately, most of the Corps' activities do not need to be carried out by the federal government. Some of its activities—such as flood control and the management of recreational areas—should be turned over to state and local governments. Other activities—such as seaport dredging and hydropower generation—should be turned over to the private sector. This essay focuses on cutting the Corps' spending activities, and does not address the calls for reforming the agency's regulatory functions.3</span>

States are an option for military infrastructure increase
Cassidy & Associates, 13 [Cassidy & Associates is the nation’s foremost government relations firm specializing in military base enhancement services, "Military Base Enhancement,” 4-4-13, www.cassidy.com/services/62/, accessed 4-27-13, mss]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Pursuing other opportunities for investments in defense facilities. Due to the shortage of milcon funding, increasing attention is being paid to other opportunities for enhancing military facilities. These efforts can include public-private partnerships for installation facilities (such as housing and utilities infrastructure) and use of enhanced use leasing authority to attract private development of new facilities. We work to explore and promote such investment opportunities, as well as other federal, state, and local sources of enhancement funding.</span>

State DOTs do military access transportation infrastructure- California proves
Orr, 9 -- DOD Office of Economic Adjustment project manger [Kristen, "Community and Military Compatibility Planning," 12-10-9, opr.ca.gov/docs/Military_GPG_Supplement.pdf, accessed 4-27-13, mss]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Goal¶ To ensure adequate circulation routes are maintained between the installation and related operational areas (e.g., training areas and supply depots), and to ensure these activities do not interfere with civilian transportation needs.¶ Possible Policies¶ Ensure community and military transportation corridors are protected to maintain viability of the installation and its operations.  Consider the needs of military installations when planning transportation and infrastructure projects by consulting regularly with the military to ensure military routes are depicted accurately on the general plan diagrams and maps.  Ensure that military installations have adequate ingress and egress routes. ¶ Implementation Measures¶ Include military transportation corridors and infrastructure in the planning area on the general plan circulation diagram(s). When amending the circulation element, consult with military planners to ensure that military installations, infrastructure and training activities are considered.  Work with Regional Transportation Planning Agencies, California Department of Transportation (Caltrans), and United States Department of Transportation to promote transportation projects that further sustainable and compatible land use and circulation patterns.</span>
States have the authority
NCSL, no date [National Conference of State Legislatures, "Working with State Legislators: A Guide for Military Installations and State Legislators," www.denix.osd.mil/sri/upload/PRIMER2_NCSL.PDF, accessed 4-27-13, mss]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">State legislatures have the constitutional authority to pass laws and play a major role in adopting or enabling land use policies that local governments carry out. They may require local governments to adopt comprehensive plans containing land use elements that protect their citizens from activities at nearby military installations, and ensure that the military can continue to conduct important testing activities and training exercises. Local governments may need enabling authority from the state to adopt land use planning and zoning ordinances independent of state mandates to control development adjacent to military bases. Understanding how the legislature operates—and its relationship to local governments exercising planning and zoning authority—is essential to developing successful state-military collaboration to prevent and control encroachment.</span>

===1NC Tradeoff Shell=== 
Long range bomber will be funded now – but preserving the DOD’s current budget is key
Bloomberg 9-20 (Tony Capaccio, “Air Force Strives ‘to Maintain’ Tanker, F-35, Bomber Plans,” Bloomberg, 9-20-2011,[[@http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-09-20/air-force-will-strive-to-maintain-tanker-f-35-bomber-plans.html]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. Air Force will “make trade-offs” to protect its purchase of new [[http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/quote?ticker=BA:US|Boeing Co. (BA)]] aerial tankers, the [[http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/quote?ticker=LMT:US|Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)]] F-35 fighter, and a future bomber program, Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz said today. “Everything is certainly under scrutiny” Schwartz said at an Air Force Association meeting in Oxon Hill, [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/maryland/|Maryland]], near [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/washington/|Washington]]. “But the bottom line is there are three programs we will strive to maintain -- it’s the tanker, it’s the F-35 at appropriate levels and long-range strike,” Schwartz said of the Boeing Co. and Lockheed Martin Corp programs. The long-range strike program, including a new bomber, is in early development. “We will do all we can,” he said. Schwartz’s comments to reporters summarized a “State of the Air Force” presentation to the annual [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/air-force/|Air Force]] Association conference. The Pentagon budget is being cut by about $330 billion over the next decade, and more than twice as much if a super committee in Congress fails to agree on ways to trim the federal deficit. “Our fiscal environment and the pace of development have made it necessary to temper” the pace of F-35 procurement, he said. Still, Schwartz repeated a theme voiced a day earlier by Air Force Secretary Michael Donley that “there is no alternative to the F-35 -- so we are committed to this program.” “We must proceed toward efficient manufacture and a steady production rate as soon as possible,” Schwartz said. “Lockheed’s got to perform and we need to manage the program in a responsible manner.” Schwartz expressed optimism that the service’s long-range strike program, which includes a new bomber and munitions, will survive the Pentagon’s budget review. “Against some amount of skepticism” from then-Defense Secretary [[http://topics.bloomberg.com/robert-gates/|Robert Gates]], the Air Force last year convinced him to “pursue this path,” Schwartz said. “It is my expectation that that conviction will remain within the department,” he said. The fiscal 2012 budget includes the first $200 million of $1.7 billion planned through 2015 to develop, compete and build the nation’s next long-range bomber program, as well as upgrade existing B-2 and B-52 aircraft. </span>

The aff would force the DOD to cut the bomber program
Majumdar ‘11 (Dave Majumdar, Defense News, “U.S. Air Force Bomber Plans Hinge On Savings,” 1-17-2011,[[@http://www.defensenews.com/story.php?i=5469848]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">If the U.S. Air Force wants its bomber and satellite plans to bear fruit, it must squeeze the money from its own budget through efficiencies and other savings, service officials and analysts said. Air Force Secretary Michael Donley said such savings will fund a host of programs, including the F-35 stealth fighter, the recently announced long-range bomber, more satellite-boosting rockets and upgrades for existing fighters. Donley said the service had already begun a broad efficiency drive by Aug. 9, when Defense Secretary Robert Gates ordered the services to save $100 billion over five years. "This work had been underway, but certainly the secretary [of defense] gave us a shot in the arm and gave us a great, I think, inducement to proceed with this work with a simple caveat: What we found within the Air Force for savings and efficiencies would stay in the Air Force," he told reporters Jan. 12. Finding those savings will be critical, said Dan Gouré, an analyst at the Lexington Institute in Arlington, Va. "It better be a viable strategy; otherwise the Air Force in particular is out of luck. The Air Force has so many demands on it for recapitalizing the force," Gouré said. New Bomber The new bomber will be a key beneficiary of the savings drive, Donley said. "Efficiencies will enable continuing investment in establishing a new program of record for this long-range strike platform in the context of continuing work on this broader family of systems," he said. The aircraft will be able to be flown by an onboard crew or remotely like a UAV, the secretary said. It will be part of a "family of systems" that will also handle ground surveillance and electronic attack. Donley said it would be able to carry nuclear weapons, but would be primarily geared toward conventional war, and might not be immediately certified for nuclear missions. Unlike the service's previous next-generation bomber effort, the new aircraft will use proven technologies, he said. "In contrast to the program that was canceled in 2009, Next Generation bomber as it was known, development of this new bomber will leverage more mature technologies, and we think will reduce the risk in the program, allow us to deliver with greater confidence on schedule and in quantities sufficient to support long-term sustainment of long-range bomber capabilities after the current fleet of B-1s and B-52s retire," Donley said. Still, Gouré doubts that the service's efforts to save will free up enough money to fund the bomber effort, especially for production. "Is the current reallocation money going to be enough? No, clearly not, when you get to the point of having to build," he said. Over the long term, however, Gouré said he believes there is enough money in the budget to pay for a new bomber as production on other programs comes to a close. "If they need this thing, they'll find the money. Not to worry," he said. </span>

Cancellation of the bomber program triggers deterrence failures
Gunzinger ‘10 (Mark A. Gunzinger, Senior Fellow at CSBA, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Transformation and Resources, former Director for Defense Transformation, Force Planning and Resources on the National Security Council staff, a key player in every major defense review since the end of the Cold War, retired Air Force Colonel and Command Pilot, M.S. National Security Strategy, National War College, Master of Airpower Art and Science, School of Advanced Air and Space Studies, Master of Public Administration from Central Michigan University, and B.S. Chemistry, U.S. Air Force Academy, “Sustaining America’s Strategic Advantage in Long-Range Strike,” Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, 9-14-2010, p.76, [[@http://www.csbaonline.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/09/2010.09.14-Sustaining-Americas-Strategic-Advantage-in-Long-Range-Strike.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Sustaining the Air Leg of the Nuclear Triad The Air Force needs to have a plan for a land-based strategic deterrent replacement and for sustainment of the air leg of the nuclear deterrent force. — General Chilton, Commander, US Strategic Command163 The 2010 Nuclear Posture Review (NPR) determined that DoD must maintain a nuclear triad in order to sustain the nation’s strategic deterrence posture, provide extended deterrence to US allies and partners, and hedge against changes in the security environment or unforeseen technological failures of one or more triad legs.164 Despite the NPR’s conclusion, the nuclear triad is on a glide-slope toward a “dyad” of SLBMs and ICBMs. The Defense Department’s nuclear-capable bomber force program of record consists of twenty penetrating B-2s and seventy-six standoff B-52s.165 When the B-2 loses its ability to penetrate, the air leg of the triad will be reduced to B-52s equipped with nuclear-tipped standoff ALCMs that are approaching the end of their service life and are unsuited for attacking relocatable targets such as road-mobile ICBM launchers of the type being fielded by China, Iran and Russia.166 There are options that will permit DoD to sustain a nuclear-capable bomber force and hedge against uncertainty. First, DoD should develop a new nuclearcapable cruise missile capable of surviving advanced air defenses. Unlike the ALCM, the new missile should be able to carry conventional as well as nuclear warheads and to be launched from a variety of Air Force and Navy aircraft. A smaller, more versatile cruise missile with a range of 500–600 nm that can be carried by fighter-sized aircraft as well as bombers would permit DoD to take advantage of the economies of scale via a larger procurement and increase the overall size of the standoff missile magazine. Second, the Defense Department should design a new bomber to preserve this option for delivering nuclear weapons. Under New START, the Air Force has the latitude to incorporate basic nuclear weapons requirements into a new bomber design without fully equipping, testing, certifying, and declaring it as nuclearcapable.</span>
This creates three unique scenarios for nuclear war – allied proliferation, hostile aggression, and crisis escalation
Williams ‘10 (David E. Williams, Jr., Major, U.S. Air Force, career Security Forces Officer currently serving as the Chief of Nuclear Security Inspections, Defense Threat Reduction Agency, former Squadron Commander, Staff Officer, Operations Officer, Flight Commander, and Convoy Commander within the Air Force nuclear community, also a certified SWAT Team Leader, Trainer, Designated Marksman, and Crisis Negotiator, M.A. Security Studies, M.A. Counseling & Human Behavior, B.A. Psychology, “A Review of U.S. First-Strike Ambiguity and the Triad Nuclear Force,” Defense Threat Reduction University Journal, 1(2), October 2010,[[@http://www.dtra.mil/dtru/documents/V1_2/US%20First%20Strike%20Ambiguity%20-%20Williams.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The case for the continuity of current U.S. nuclear policies and structure involves consideration of their benefits in terms of security, international prestige, domestic politics, and technology.8 From a security perspective, nuclear weapons ensure security because the potential usage of nuclear weapons during a conflict raises the cost of war to an unacceptable level.9 Scott Sagan notes that: Nuclear declaratory policy is meant to enhance deterrence of potential adversaries by providing a signal of the intentions, options and proclivities of the U.S. government in different crisis and war-time scenarios.10 I would argue, however, that an ambiguous U.S. first use policy of nuclear weapons creates valuable uncertainty on the part of potential adversaries. This uncertainty, coupled with U.S. nuclear and conventional superiority, makes overt state aggression against the U.S. or its’ allies a very uncertain and potentially disastrous proposition, thus not likely to happen. After all, no state has started a war with the U.S. since it acquired nuclear weapons. No part of the U.S. nuclear triad can be eliminated without creating an adverse impact on deterrence. This is the case because each element of the triad fills a unique role that makes U.S. nuclear forces lethal, survivable, and visible. Submarines offer the greatest degree of survivability, but the lowest degree of accuracy and become vulnerable upon surfacing. Bombers are the most accurate and only recallable option, but they are vulnerable to defensive counter-air missions and ground based anti-aircraft fire. ICBMs are the most reliable means of delivery and the only sovereign launched option, yet are all located at known, stationary sites that are easily targeted by enemy ICBM forces, special operations teams, or terrorist surrogates. One may not consider the visibility of nuclear forces to be desirable, but the visibility of bombers and ICBMs allows for clear signaling to potential adversaries about U.S. intentions during a crisis. Take the Cuban Missile Crisis for example: President Kennedy used naval and air forces in order to signal his intent toward Premier Khrushchev. This signaling ensured there were no doubts about U.S. willingness to go to war to prevent Soviet missiles from being placed in Cuba. Future conflicts may require signaling of a similar nature to prevent deadly exchanges. For example, if Kim Jong Il were notified that the U.S. was uploading nuclear-armed bombers in response to North Korean deployments of nuclear-armed missiles, he might reconsider his actions. From the perspective of international prestige, other powers are retaining and in some cases enhancing their nuclear capability, yet as Younger points out, the U.S. is not modernizing any aspect of its inventory.11 Instead, the U.S. is relying on mathematical projections and estimations regarding the reliability of its systems and deploying them well beyond what most states would consider a reasonable service-life. Further reductions in strategic nuclear forces could be seen as evidence of retrenchment on the part of the U.S. by ambitious rising or reemerging powers, thus increasing the risk of war. The U.S. could be characterized as a declining power by rising powers who are seeking either initial or enhanced nuclear technology. Rising powers, after all, will work to realign the international balance of power in their favor: one way of doing so is through countering U.S. military capabilities. If the U.S. were to reduce its capability by eliminating portions of the triad, then it would essentially be making it easier for other powers to challenge the current U.S. position. Further, without the potential threat of a nuclear first strike, U.S. allies might feel less secure about U.S. security commitments, especially in light of current troop commitments in Iraq and Afghanistan. Such insecurity has the potential to lead these allies to pursue nuclear capabilities of their own, as well as embolden hostile states to gamble on a lack of U.S. retaliation for WMD usage or conventional aggression. For example, when the U.S. considered reducing troop levels in South Korea, the government in Seoul signaled a potential shift in policy toward a nuclear capability to protect itself from possible North Korean aggression.12 This threat resulted in very quick U.S. reassurances about troop levels and its commitment to defending South Korea.</span>

===1NR Turns Case=== 
Solves China War
Lieber and Press 7- Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press, Winter 2007. Assistant professor of political science @ U of Notre Dame; and consultant on military analysis projects for the U.S. Department of Defense for 13 years, and an associate professor of government @ Dartmouth. “U.S. Nuclear Primacy and the Future of the Chinese Deterrent,” China Security,http://www.wsichina.org/cs5_5.pdf.
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The available information on the Chinese nuclear arsenal suggests that Li is mistaken. Although Li suggests that China could relocate its “cave-based” missiles in response to a U.S. threat, the only Chinese nuclear missiles hidden in caves are apparently DF-4s – and those missiles lack the range to strike the United States. China’s only nuclear weapons capable of reaching the United States are its DF-5A missiles, which are based in silos. The DF-5A missiles are maintained at low levels of readiness; their nuclear warheads are kept separately in storage and the missiles themselves are un-fueled.22 China could respond to U.S. coercive threats by mating warheads to missiles, but even that step would not meaningfully reduce their vulnerability to attack. China lacks not only a national early-warning system to provide indication of an incoming attack, but also a launch-on-warning doctrine that would allow its forces to escape destruction if it believed an attack was coming. In sum, the Chinese long-range arsenal appears to be vulnerable to a disarming attack, regardless of whether those forces are “alerted” or not. Therefore, Li is wrong to discount the possibility of U.S. nuclear coercion during a crisis or war on these grounds.</span>

The perception of nuclear primacy manages rogue states – they’re too scared to escalate
Schoff, 9 – et al—assoc dir of Asia-Pacific Studies at the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis; Dr. Jacquelyn K. Davis, executive VP of IFPA; Dr. Robert L. Pfaltzgraff Jr., Professor of International Security Studies at Tufts University; Dr. Charles M. Perry, VP and director of studies of IFPA (James, Updating U.S. Deterrence Concepts and Operational Planning, http://www.ifpa.org/pdf/Updating_US_Deterrence_Concepts.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Moreover, as suggested above, as more nations seek or attain nuclear status, we may very well be entering an era in which nuclear “non-use” is ending. This means that the risk of deterrence failures is growing, and with it questions about the ability of the United States to control the escalation chain in a crisis situation. During the Cold War, escalation dominance was presumed to lie with the United States, or at least that it could be managed in the U.S.-Soviet context because the stakes of escalation were such that both states were putatively deterred from nuclear weapons use (against the other). Today, however, the same may not be true with respect to North Korea and Iran, let alone in the context of a Taiwan contingency, or with respect to India and Pakistan in a crisis over Kashmir. Deterrence failures in the regional context may result from an accident, a deliberate calculation, or the intervention of a third party (e.g., Israel or Taiwan) in a crisis contingency. However, regardless of their origins, the consequences might very well be an escalatory exchange that ultimately draws the United States into a regional nuclear conflict. Compound Escalation and Catalytic Warfare: Key Considerations in U.S. Deterrence Planning Without a doubt, deterrence planning is destined to be more complex in the 21st century and to involve numerous players. As such, it may increasingly entail considerations related to compound escalation, which involves the manipulation of seemingly unrelated issues to raise the stakes for an adversary, or catalytic warfare, a term first coined by the late deterrence theorist Dr. Herman Kahn to refer to the “notion that some third party or nation might for its own reasons deliberately start a war between two major powers.”3 According to Kahn, “the widespread diffusion of nuclear weapons would make many nations able, and in some cases also create the pressure, to aggravate an on-going crisis, or even touch off a war between two other powers for purposes of their own.”4 Israel, for example, perceiving an existential threat from Iran, could instigate military action, whereupon Iran, in turn, might retaliate against Israel and broaden the conflict to attack U.S. interests in the region or even America itself, using Hezbollah assets or possibly its own long-range missiles armed with nuclear weapons. Without overstating the likelihood for catalytic warfare along these lines, other possibilities could include contingencies tied to the India-Pakistan rivalry or to cross-strait tensions between China and Taiwan. Each of these cases suggests, moreover, that escalation dominance can no longer be presumed to reside with the United States, as regional actors look to nuclear weapons and/or contemplate their acquisition to provide an asymmetric capability for use against a “regional aggressor” or against the superior (conventional) forces of the United States. For this reason, the art of managing third party expectations and options in a crisis is destined to become a more important aspect of U.S. deterrence planning, and it will require new approaches to reassuring allies and with respect to “signaling” our strategic intent and interests to real and potential adversaries. In this context, there is no question of the need for more innovative thinking on how best to counter Iran’s future capacity to implement a strategy of compound escalation by using nuclear weapons first in a conventional warfare scenario, by widening the scope of violence to target U.S. coalition partners in the region, or by relying on proxy forces using irregular warfare (IW) tactics and strategies. In terms of escalation management, the challenges that a nuclear Iran or an Iran on the brink of acquiring a nuclear capability would present are numerous and complex. The same is true of North Korea, which might decide to use nuclear weapons first in a variety of crisis scenarios. In both instances, however, deterring an adversary from attacking the United States directly may have a better chance of success than efforts to deter it from using nuclear weapons or other WMD against our allies. The obvious purpose of extended deterrence is to reinforce the belief in the mind of the adversary that an attack on an ally is tantamount to an attack on the United States. If the United States and the ally became less vulnerable to attack because of a deterrence strategy based on denial, extended deterrence inevitably would be strengthened. Thus, while deterring an enemy attack against the United States itself must remain a central focus of U.S. deterrence planning, other considerations, including the need to dissuade leaderships from taking proliferation decisions in the first place and to reassure anxious allies and coalition partners, remain crucially important elements in U.S. deterrence planning as well, and underscore the particular need for a strategic defense component, composed of active and passive defensive measures and technologies. </span>

The air force is a critical component to the economy
Air Force Times 09 (2009, Air Force Times, [[http://www.airforcetimes.com/community/opinion/airforce_backtalk_strength_011209/]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Here’s an economics lesson for the American service member. pull out a dollar bill. Its value isn’t set by gold or precious metal; only law and world currency markets determine its worth. Why, then, would someone buy mere paper not backed by a tangible asset? Foreigners buy our dollars because they know America has the greatest return on investment of any endeavor in history. America now finds itself in economic hard times. Does the world’s smart money still consider America a safe bet? Absolutely, and the U.S. service member has something to do with it. Since the early 1990s, America has led the way creating a post-Cold War global economy built on international free trade. For better or worse, the U.S. is the lynchpin holding it all together. When foreign countries buyour dollars and debt, they essentially cast a vote of confidence in America and the global economic system we helped establish. Defense critics point out the U.S. spends more on defense than the next 14 nations combined. True, but we also directly or indirectly protect those nations’ access to international trade. This arrangement benefits our friends and rivals alike. China, the world’s manufacturing superpower, for example, exported $1.2 trillion in goods last year but doesn’t protect most of the international trade routes on which it so heavily depends. It’s largely the American fighting man and woman keeping global trade free. Foreign nations may rail against U.S. military power in public, but privately they vote with their money. They understand two important facts: our forces operate with immense restraint and in strict adherence to law; and no international coalition can yet match America’s military prowess. For this reason, our newly elected leaders must tread carefully. Recently, Rep. Barney Frank, D-Mass., called for a 25 percent cut in the defense budget. One lesson the financial crisis taught us is that risk assumed by one global player is risk assumed by all. If America can’t or won’t protect the global trade system, then our national stock will surely go down. Investors will take their money elsewhere, and other nations will fill the power vacuum we leave behind. What will our dollars and debt be worth then? The 21st-century U.S. military isn’t just protecting our homeland or hunting down terrorists, but ensuring the global economy remains free. If you’re an American military member reading this, you truly hold that dollar in your hands. It isn’t backed by gold.</span>
===1NR AT: Use OCO funds=== 
__[[#|The fund]]__ doesn’t have money anymore and will be used to cancel out sequestration
Parnass and Miller 4/25 (Sarah and Sullen- ABC news, “Reid Proposes Plan to Replace Sequester Cuts with Money from Afghanistan, Iraq Wars”, http://abcnews.go.com/Politics/reid-proposes-plan-replace-sequester-cuts-money-afghanistan/story?id=19025132#.UXw06KJJP4s)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Nineteen months before the combat phase of the war in Afghanistan is set to end, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid suggested Congress take money allocated for that operation and use it to pay off sequester cuts.¶ With FAA furloughs causing airport delays and headaches across the nation, the Senate Majority Leader announced he intends to move this evening an anti-sequestration bill that would cancel the budget cuts for five months, paid for with what he said were war savings.¶ "I think we should do something about sequestration," Reid, D-Nev., said this afternoon. "We should do what was in one of the Ryan budgets; that is, use the Overseas Contingency Fund to delay the implementation of sequestration."¶ The Overseas Contingency Operation is the designation used in the Department of Defense budget for money used to fund the Iraq and Afghanistan wars. At the start of FY2013, $96.7 billion was allocated for OCO, including money for the State Department and USAID in Afghanistan and Pakistan. President Obama's proposed FY2014 budget does not yet give a number for OCO, because of delayed decisions about troop levels. The overall cap for OCO through 2021 was set in the 2013 budget at $450 billion.¶ Less than two weeks ago, Undersecretary of Defense Robert Hale said that earlier plans for OCO underestimated how expensive it would be to wrap up the war and take troops home from Afghanistan.¶ "We are spending more in our OCO budget than we anticipated two years ago when it was put together, both through the higher operating tempo and higher transportation costs," Hale said at a Defense Department briefing April 10.</span>

Sequester cut their fund in 2013
Bell 13 (STEVE BELL
SENIOR DIRECTOR OF THE ECONOMIC POLICY PROJECT, “Everything You Want to Know About the
Sequester (and more)”, http://bipartisanpolicy.org/sites/default/files/Sequester%20Presentation%20.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">• Aside from active duty pay, almost all defense spending is subject to ¶ the sequester. Conversely, there are numerous large carve-outs within ¶ domestic spending ¶ Defense ¶ • All military personnel accounts ¶ (upon the president’s request) ¶ • Overseas Combat Operations ¶ (OCO) – only 2013 ¶ • Foreign Military Sales Trust Fund ¶ • Military Retirement Fund ¶ Domestic ¶ • Social Security ¶ • Medicare (limited to 2% cut in ¶ provider payments) ¶ • All low-income programs, ¶ including: ¶ • Medicaid ¶ • Refundable income tax ¶ credits ¶ • Food stamps</span>
=Round 4= 
===New Aff (PTC) Plan Text=== 
====Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its funding for positive train control in the United States.==== 

===Advantage 1- Economy=== 
We’ll isolate 2 internal links:

First is the rail industry - it accesses every sector of the economy and creates a unique job multiplier
AAR 12 (Association of American Railroads, June 2012(June 2012, The Economic Impact
of America’s Freight Railroads, http://www.aar.org/~/media/aar/Background-Papers/The-Economic-Impact-of-Freight.ashx)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Freight Railroads Mean More Jobs and a Stronger Economy ¶ By linking businesses to each other here and abroad, freight railroads have played a ¶ crucial role in America’s economic development for 180 years. Today, freight railroads serve ¶ nearly every industrial, wholesale, retail, and resource-based sector of our economy They remain ¶ critical to our economy today: ¶  The more than 175,000 freight railroad employees are among America’s most highly ¶ compensated workers. In 2010, the average freight railroad employee earned wages of ¶ $73,000 and fringe benefits of $30,120, for total average compensation of $103,120. By ¶ contrast, the average wage per full-time employee in the United States in 2010 was ¶ $53,000 (just 73 percent of the comparable rail figure) and average total compensation ¶ was $66,000 (just 64 percent of the rail figure). ¶  According to a U.S. Department of Commerce model of the U.S. economy, in addition to ¶ their own employees freight railroads sustain more than 1 million additional jobs at ¶ firms that provide goods and services to railroads or that are recipients of spending by the ¶ employees of railroads and their suppliers. The model indicates that every job in day-today freight rail operations sustains another 4.5 jobs elsewhere in the economy. ¶  Millions of other Americans work in industries that are more competitive in the global ¶ economy thanks to the affordability and productivity of America’s freight railroads. ¶  Rail industry employees are covered by the Railroad Retirement System, which is funded ¶ by railroads and their employees. In fiscal year 2010, approximately 580,000 beneficiaries received some $10.8 billion in benefits from the Railroad Retirement System. ¶  Railroads account for approximately one third of all U.S. exports.</span>

AND rail growth requires additional improvements
ASCE, 10- American Society of Civil Engineers (“Report Card for America’s Infrastructure”, Executive Summary in Building America’s Future, February 2010, http://www.bafuture.org/sites/default/files/ASCU%20Report%20Card%20%20-%20Exec%20Summary.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">A freight train is three times as fuel efficient as a truck, and traveling by passenger rail uses 20% less energy per mile than traveling by car. However, growth and changes in demand create bottlenecks that constrain traffic in critical areas. Freight and passenger rail generally share the same network, and a significant potential increase in passenger rail demand will add to the freight railroad capacity challenges. More than $200 billion is needed through 2035 to accommodate anticipated growth. Similar to the nation’s inland waterways, rail offers enormous economic and environmental potential, but few improvements have been made since 2005. This category again rates at a C-.</span>



7 unique reasons PTC is key to the rail industry
Response to disruption
Line capacity
Decreased meet time
Asset productivity
Work orders
Malfunction diagnose
Congestion
Fuel __[[#|Savings]]__
Zeta-Tech 4 (ZETA-TECH has been a leading consultancy and applied technology firm dedicated to the railway and transportation industries, March 14, “QUANTIFICATION OF THE ¶ BUSINESS BENEFITS¶ OF POSITIVE TRAIN CONTROL- Prepared for the¶ Federal Railroad Administration”, http://www.tsd.org/papers/FRA%20PTC%20final%20report%2003-16-04.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The benefits of PTC are realized in a number of ways. Line capacity and service ¶ reliability are improved, in PTC A, by the availability of accurate, real time data on train ¶ location and speed. This enables train dispatchers to respond more quickly to service ¶ disruptions, and to more quickly formulate alternative dispatching plans as circumstances ¶ change.¶ PTC B permits trains to follow more closely, increasing line capacity even further ¶ than PTC A. Faster over-the-road running times, again, result from better “meets”¶ between trains (since dispatchers know train position more accurately and, in PTC B,¶ trains can follow more closely).¶ Again, the real-time location information provided by both PTC A and PTC B¶ enables railroad managers to exercise more effective control of locomotives and freight ¶ cars, increasing asset productivity.¶ PTC A and PTC B both provide the capability to issue instructions (“work¶ orders”) to train crews in real time. These instructions direct crews to deliver or pick up ¶ freight cars; PTC also permits the crews to report the completion of this work in real¶ time. Again, this permits more effective management of rail equipment.¶ The digital data link in both PTC A and PTC B can be used to report diagnostic ¶ data on locomotives in real time, allowing shop forces to diagnose malfunctions and¶ order necessary parts before a locomotive arrives in the shop. Diagnostics also should¶ provide warning of impending failures, possibly allowing train crews to take actions that¶ avoid an en-route failure that delays trains.¶ Real-time data on train location and speed also will allow track maintenance¶ forces (track inspectors and others) to more effectively utilize their time. Traffic density ¶ on the U.S. rail network has increased significantly since deregulation of the industry in ¶ 1981. This has made the scheduling of track time for inspection and maintenance more ¶ and more difficult. Real-time, accurate information on train location should permit an¶ increase in the productivity of track forces.¶ Finally, real-time position information will allow train dispatchers to “pace” trains ¶ between scheduled meet points, permitting fuel savings. Current practice is to run trains ¶ at maximum authorized speeds, often arriving at meet points well ahead of schedule.¶ With real-time information on the location of opposing trains, it may be possible to slow ¶ a train down to save fuel while still arriving on schedule at the meet point.¶ </span>



And each internal has a quantifiable impact- they save the industry millions every year and boost every sector of the economy
Zeta-Tech 4 (ZETA-TECH has been a leading consultancy and applied technology firm dedicated to the railway and transportation industries, March 14, “QUANTIFICATION OF THE ¶ BUSINESS BENEFITS¶ OF POSITIVE TRAIN CONTROL- Prepared for the¶ Federal Railroad Administration”, http://www.tsd.org/papers/FRA%20PTC%20final%20report%2003-16-04.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">“Precision dispatching” is the term given to train dispatching aided by real-time ¶ location information. In PTC A this enables dispatchers to make better decisions¶ regarding how trains are to pass each other on single track. In PTC B, there is an¶ additional benefit realized from “moving block” operation, in which trains can run on¶ closer geographic spacing. The result in both cases is an increase in average car velocity ¶ across the rail network, enabling the railroads to offer the same service with fewer¶ locomotives and cars. PTC B, of course, also offers increased line capacity.¶ The use of real-time work order issuance provides some benefit in the form of¶ reduced car ownership expense (since cars are moving more expeditiously). Locomotive ¶ diagnostics allow some en-route locomotive failures to be prevented, and also reduce¶ shop time by providing shop forces with the ability to diagnose problems prior to the¶ arrival of locomotives in the shop.¶ Finally, a fuel savings estimated at 2.5% to 5% is realized through better control ¶ of operations: better timing of meets between trains, and pacing of trains rather than¶ operation at maximum authorized speed where it is unnecessary.¶ A comparison of costs and benefits has been undertaken to determine the¶ expected return on investment (ROI) from a deployment of PTC nationwide on the Class ¶ I railroad network.4¶ Although the potential benefits of “track forces terminals” in terms of increased ¶ productivity for track maintenance forces are acknowledged here, they have not been¶ quantified because they will be route- and railroad-specific, and dependent upon traffic ¶ volume. However, it should be noted that the railroad industry spends more than $10¶ billion annually on maintenance and renewal (operating and capital costs) of its fixed¶ plant (track and structures, communications, and signals). If the availability of real-time ¶ information on train location can improve track workforce productivity by 5%, this¶ equates to an annual savings of $500 million for the industry.¶ Most of the benefits quantified in Table A are savings to the railroads from more ¶ efficient operation. In the case of line capacity, the annual amounts shown are an¶ annualization of the capital cost of 8,300 miles of second main track, plus the annual cost ¶ of maintaining that track. Car and locomotive savings are similarly calculated. In each ¶ case, an annual ownership cost is calculated using a purchase price, an expected service ¶ life, and a cost of money.¶ The only benefits that are not direct savings to railroads are the “shipper benefits”, ¶ which are composed of savings shippers might realize in total logistics cost if railroad¶ service improved and rates did not increase.¶ It is important to note that it is by no means certain that railroads will realize all of ¶ the savings in Table A. Railroads might choose to give some of the savings to their ¶ customers in the form of lower rail rates; historically, 80% of the savings railroads have ¶ realized since deregulation have been given to shippers. But whether the benefits flow to ¶ railroads or to their customers, in one way or another the entire U.S. economy benefits.</span>



Second internal link is freight congestion- it costs 1 trillion annually
Davidson 12 (Paul, USA Today, “USA’s creaking infrastructure holds back economy, 5/20/2012, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The shortcomings were partly masked during the recession as fewer Americans worked and less freight was shipped, easing traffic on transportation corridors. But interviews with shippers and logistics companies show delays are starting to lengthen along with the moderately growing economy. "I call this a stealth attack on our economy," says Janet Kavinoky, executive director of transportation and infrastructure for the [[http://content.usatoday.com/topics/topic/Organizations/Political+Bodies/United+States+Chamber+of+Commerce|U.S. Chamber of Commerce]]. "It's not like an immediate crisis. It's something that's sneaking up on us." Freight bottlenecks and other congestion cost about $200 billion a year, or 1.6% of U.S. economic output, according to a report last year by Building America's Future Educational Fund, a bipartisan coalition of elected officials. The chamber of commerce estimates such costs are as high as $1 trillion annually, or 7% of the economy. Yet, there's little prospect for more infrastructure investment as a divided Congress battles about how to cut the $1.3 trillion federal deficit, and state and local governments face their own budget shortfalls. Government investment in highways, bridges, water systems, schools and other projects has fallen each year since 2008. [[http://content.usatoday.com/topics/topic/IHS+Global+Insight|IHS Global Insight]] expects such outlays to drop 4.4% this year and 3% in 2013. The U.S. is spending about half of the $2.2 trillion that it should over a five-year period to repair and expand overburdened infrastructure, says Andrew Herrmann, president of the [[http://content.usatoday.com/topics/topic/Organizations/Non-profits,+Activist+Groups/American+Society+of+Civil+Engineers|American Society of Civil Engineers]]. Inland waterways, for example, carry coal to power plants, iron ore to steel mills and grain to export terminals. But inadequate investment led to nearly 80,000 hours of lock outages in fiscal 2010, four times more than in fiscal 2000. Most of the nation's 200 or so locks are past their 50-year design life. A prime example is an 83-year-old lock on the Ohio River near Olmsted, Ill. Congress set aside $775 million to replace it and another nearby lock in 1988. The project began in 1993 and was scheduled to be finished by 2000 but still isn't complete, in part because of engineering modifications intended to save $60 million. Now, the cost has ballooned to $3.1 billion, and the new lock won't be ready until 2020 or later. The cost overrun leaves little money for other projects. About $8 billion is needed to replace 25 locks and dams in the next 20 years, says Michael Toohey, president of the Waterways Council, an advocacy group. But Congress allocates only about $170 million a year, with the government and a 20-cent-a-gallon tax on tow operators each funding half. Toohey says $385 million a year is required to fund all the work. "We're the silent industry" because waterways are less visible, he says. The biggest railroad bottleneck is in Chicago. A third of the nation's freight volume goes through the city as 500 freight trains jostle daily for space with 800 passenger trains and street traffic. Many freight rail lines crisscross at the same grade as other trains and cars — a tangle that forces interminable waits. It takes an average freight train about 35 hours to crawl through the city. Shipping containers typically languish in rail yards several days before they can be loaded onto trains.</span>




This has a devastating ripple effect across the economy
Jones 7—Transportation specialist in the FHWA Office of Freight Management and Operations. She administers programs and initiatives related to measuring freight performance and freight movement at U.S. international land border crossings. Before joining the freight office in 2003, Jones was a traffic management specialist with the United States Army, specializing in supply chain management and automation. (Crystal, “Perspective on Freight Congestion”, Jul/Aug 2007, Proquest)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. surface transportation network, which includes rail and highway, is reaching or has reached capacity in many areas, causing congestion. There are two sources of congestion. Recurring congestion largely stems from lack of capacity to meet traffic demand or lack of optimal operation of the infrastructure. Nonrecurring congestion results from unpredictable or unexpected disruption of the infrastructure. Goods movement also can be impeded by route restrictions, administrative procedures (such as customs clearance, regulatory compliance, and security), and facility or operational inefficiency and constraints. In some instances, changes in freight handling, yard location and layout, scheduling, and shipment coordination can play a role in minimizing delay and moving freight more efficiently.¶ For the freight industry and trucking companies, congestion on the transportation network diminishes productivity and increases the overall cost of transportation services. Increased costs may be due to higher costs of fleet operations, decreased fleet and vehicle utilization, decreased fuel efficiency, increased emissions due to idling, and decreased hours of "productive" service for drivers.¶ Although private and public sector efforts to quantify the operational cost of congestion to the freight industry have been limited, a 2004 USDOT report, Freight Transportation: Improvements and the Economy, estimates the cost of carrying freight on the highway system at between $25 and $200 an hour, depending on product type and other factors. The report also cites a 2001 USDOT white paper, "Creating a Freight Sector within HERS," that estimates unexpected delays can increase the cost of transporting goods by 50 to 250 percent.¶ Because a supply chain is a "network of retailers, distributors, transporters, storage facilities, and suppliers that participate in the sale, delivery, and production of a particular product," as defined by "investorwords.com," congestion resulting in unreliable trip times and missed deliveries can have major business implications, causing a ripple effect that adds costs at every link of the supply chain. If the transportation function is reliable, manufacturing and retail firms can carry less inventory because they can rely on goods being delivered when and where they are needed. In addition, they can potentially expand their sourcing. The inverse also is true. If the transportation system is congested and unreliable, a firm must carry more inventory to ensure production processes are uninterrupted and the availability of goods is maintained. Stock-out situations and interrupted manufacturing operations have a negative and growing impact on business operations that have been reengineered around a just-in-time lean inventory business model.¶ Carrying inventory is a cost to a firm. Not only is a firm's capital tied up in inventory, precluding its use for more productive activity, but inventory must be stored and insured, and the capital invested is at risk should the inventory lose its shelf life. This model of businesses carrying more inventories to buffer transportation unreliability has negative cost implications and also affects customer service.¶ Transportation always has been integral to the ability of businesses to capitalize on economic and competitive advantages. Now, with businesses integrating fluid transportation into their operations, it is not just transportation, but efficient, speedy, and reliable transportation that will play a significant role in maintaining and expanding economic activity.¶ "Gone are the days when on time delivery is an option-it is now a requirement," says Rosalyn Wilson, independent consultant and author of the Council of Supply Chain Management Professionals (CSCMP) State of Logistics Report, published in 2006. "Shippers, particularly those employing just-in-time management techniques, expect freight carriers to deliver goods on time, in the right amount, and in undamaged condition. Missed deliveries to manufacturing plants and retail outlets can halt production, hinder sales, and potentially sever business relationships. Efficient and reliable freight transportation enables businesses to respond rapidly to changes in customer and consumer demand, shorten product cycle times, and reduce inventory."¶ </span>



Independent of the economic impacts of congestion- freight rail efficiency is key to the industrial base
Hartong 1 (Mark W. Hartong¶ Master of Science¶ George Mason University, ¶ Master of Science¶ United States Naval Postgraduate School, ¶ Bachelor of Science¶ Iowa State University of Science and Technology, “Secure Communications Based Train Control (CBTC) Operations”, http://digilib.gmu.edu:8080/jspui/bitstream/1920/4510/3/Hartong_Mark.pdf.txt)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Railroads are a critical transportation asset and play a significant role in the United States¶ economy. They operate in every state in the US except Hawaii, across a network that ex-¶ ceeds 140,000 miles (Figure 4.1). Use Cases capture functional requirements in terms of¶ necessary interactions between an actor and the environmental constraints under which the¶ system and its actors operate. Due to the recent trend of misusing and/or abusing systems¶ defects and vulnerabilities by various mal actors, Use Cases have been augmented by Misuse¶ Cases to specify and eliminate known undesirable interactions between Mal-actors and a¶ system under design. The scale of rail operations is massive. In 2006 the seven major Class¶ 1 railroads alone employed over 167,000 people at an average total compensation of over¶ $94,000, moving over 1.7 trillion ton miles of freight, with revenues exceeding $40 billion [7].¶ The freight hauled was a diverse mixture (Table 4.1) of commodities that support all facets¶ of the US industrial base. These include coal, industrial chemicals, ethanol, plastic resins,¶ fertilizers, agricultural products; non-metallic minerals; food and food products; steel and¶ other primary metal products; forest products, motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts; as¶ well as waste and scrap materials (Figure 4.2)¶ The 559 freight railroads operating in the United States provide two different types of ser-¶ vice, point-to-point and switching/terminal. Railroads providing point-to-point service pri-¶ marily provide intercity pickup and deliveries, while railroads providing switching/terminal¶ service primarily provide local pickups and delivery. Additionally, railroads providing point-¶ to-point service are divided into three different classes based on their annual gross revenues.¶ In 2006, Class 1 (Table 4.2) railroad gross revenue exceeded $346 million; Class 2 railroad¶ gross revenues exceeded $40 million, whereas Class 3 railroads grossed less than $40 million.</span>

A strong industrial base solves the trade deficit
McCormack 9 (Richard- is editor of Manufacturing & Technology News. He was founding editor of High Performance Computing and Communications Week in 1991 and New Technology Week in 1987, December 21, “The Plight of American Manufacturing”, http://prospect.org/article/plight-american-manufacturing)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">America's economic elite has long argued that the country does not need an industrial base. The economies in states such as California and Michigan that have lost their industrial base, however, belie that claim. Without an industrial base, an increase in consumer spending, which pulled the country out of past recessions, will not put Americans back to work. Without an industrial base, the nation's trade deficit will continue to grow. Without an industrial base, there will be no economic ladder for a generation of immigrants, stranded in low-paying service-sector jobs. Without an industrial base, the United States will be increasingly dependent on foreign manufacturers even for its key military technology.</span>



Solving the trade balance prevents a new wave of protectionism
Hufbauer et. al. 2010 (Gary, Former Senior Chair at the Council on Foreign Relations, Author of multiple books on international trade, Peterson Institute for International Economics, “US Protectionist Impulses in the Wake of the Great Recession”, http://www.iie.com/publications/papers/hufbauer201003.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The U.S. unemployment rate more than doubled between the onset of the Great Recession in¶ December 2007 and December 2009, and is now hovering just below 10 percent(figure 1).1¶ Considering that this discouraging figure likely understates broader deterioration in the U.S.¶ labormarket,2¶ the absence of sustained Congressional pressure for large</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">scale protectionist</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">measures, beyond “Buy American” provisions and several smaller companions(all examined in¶ this report), is in some ways surprising.3¶ At least part of the explanation for the restrained political response is the simultaneous large¶ Improvement in the U.S. trade balance during 2008 and early 2009. Figure 1 illustrates how the¶ Total U.S. deficit in goods and services trade was nearly cut in half during this period, creating a¶ political obstacle to kneejerk protectionism. As we will elaborate in section IV, during recessions¶ an improving external balance (from imports falling faster than exports) often acts an¶ “automatic international economic stabilizer,” which temporarily fulfills an equivalent¶ economic function to a Keynesian government stimulus package. The “external sector” of the¶ U.S. economy during the early quarters of the Great Recession provided an “automatic offset”¶ to sliding U.S. economic activity. This probably caused policymakers to think twice about¶ succumbing to short</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">term protectionist instincts. However, figure 1 also shows how the improvement in the U.S. trade balance has been only¶ temporary and indeed began to reverse as the U.S. economy exited the Great Recession during¶ the second half of 2009. Crucial for the political threat of protectionism, economic forecasts¶ indicate that the U.S. unemployment rate will probably remain at very high levels over the¶ medium term, despite President Obama’s emphasis on “jobs, jobs, jobs” in his State of the¶ Union Address delivered on January 27th¶ , 2010.4 A time lag of at least 12 to 18months probably separates the point at which the U.S. trade¶ balance showed maximum improvement(spring 2009) and the expected drop in measured¶ unemployment well below 10 percent(fall 2010). Absent the “feel good” factor of an improving¶ trade balance, but facing continuing high unemployment levels, protectionist sentiment in the¶ U.S. Congress may increase in the coming months, especially as the November 2010midterm¶ election draws near.¶ This is particularly so, as current economic forecasts suggest amore robust U.S. economic¶ recovery in the coming years, relative to other industrial trading partners(table 1). A large and¶ growing deficit in the U.S. external balances will likely persist for some time, while the external¶ balances of other major trading partners could hold steady or even improve. If the United¶ States thus returns to its </span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">“</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">pre</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">crisis role as the world’s importer/consumer of last resort,</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">”¶</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">Protectionist impulses in the U.S. Congress are destined to escalate.5 measures implemented since then. No longer facing a newly</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">‐</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">elected U.S. president, who</span><span style="font-family: SimSun; font-size: 4pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 4pt;">entered office with considerable global appeal in the midst of an unprecedented economic¶ crisis, foreign leaders are unlikely to give the U.S. an easy pass on future new instances of U.S.¶ protectionism.</span>



Protectionism makes war inevitable
Panzer 8 – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the United States and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation. In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level. Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war.</span>




Plan increases rail capacity by 25% - committed funding is key
Lewis 98 (L Kirk- Sr Analyst at Institute for Defense Analyses, December, “CEO - GPS Industry Assessment”, <span style="font-size: 4pt;">http://www.space.commerce.gov/library/reports/1998-12-gps-assessment.pdf)</span>
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The railroads currently use GPS for mapping and remote monitoring of forces on cars¶ carrying automobiles. They are considering using GPS augmented by a differential¶ correction for Positive Train Control (PTC). This application requires submeter accuracy¶ in some instances. PTC will require a continuous GPS signal for all equipped trains, which¶ operate over the national rail network. Analysis has shown that PTC rail capacity could be¶ increased 20-25% on heavily traveled routes. The new frequencies would enhance the¶ national availability of GPS for this application. Additionally with greater information¶ about the exact location of trains and cars there would be a direct payback from a safety¶ and accident avoidance perspective. Currently we believe that this initial amount would be¶ in the $33M range. Our members currently face the dilemma of if and when to make the¶ full investment in GPS based systems. Since billions are involved it is critical that we¶ understand from the government when GPS will meet our needs. This is critical to¶ preclude early commitment of funds before the capability is made available</span>

The plan also paves the way for safe train operations – that’s key to rail efficiency
TRB 7 (This cite is really freaking long so if you want so see quals you can enlarge it, <span style="font-size: 2pt;">Transportation Research Board- Chair: Linda S. Watson, CEO, LYNX–Central Florida Regional Transportation Authority, Orlando¶ Vice Chair: Debra L. Miller, Secretary, Kansas Department of Transportation, Topeka¶ Executive Director: Robert E. Skinner, Jr., Transportation Research Board¶ J. Barry Barker, Executive Director, Transit Authority of River City, Louisville, Kentucky¶ Michael W. Behrens, Executive Director, Texas Department of Transportation, Austin¶ Allen D. Biehler, Secretary, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, Harrisburg¶ John D. Bowe, President, Americas Region, APL Limited, Oakland, California¶ Larry L. Brown, Sr., Executive Director, Mississippi Department of Transportation, Jackson¶ Deborah H. Butler, Vice President, Customer Service, Norfolk Southern Corporation and Subsidiaries, Atlanta, Georgia¶ Anne P. Canby, President, Surface Transportation Policy Partnership, Washington, D.C.¶ Nicholas J. Garber, Henry L. Kinnier Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, University of Virginia, Charlottesville¶ Angela Gittens, Vice President, Airport Business Services, HNTB Corporation, Miami, Florida¶ Susan Hanson, Landry University Professor of Geography, Graduate School of Geography, Clark University, Worcester, ¶ Massachusetts¶ Adib K. Kanafani, Cahill Professor of Civil Engineering, University of California, Berkeley¶ Harold E. Linnenkohl, Commissioner, Georgia Department of Transportation, Atlanta¶ Michael D. Meyer, Professor, School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta ¶ (Past Chair, 2006)¶ Michael R. Morris, Director of Transportation, North Central Texas Council of Governments, Arlington¶ John R. Njord, Executive Director, Utah Department of Transportation, Salt Lake City (Past Chair, 2005)¶ Pete K. Rahn, Director, Missouri Department of Transportation, Jefferson City¶ Sandra Rosenbloom, Professor of Planning, University of Arizona, Tucson¶ Tracy L. Rosser, Vice President, Corporate Trafﬁc, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., Bentonville, Arkansas¶ Rosa Clausell Rountree, Executive Director, Georgia State Road and Tollway Authority, Atlanta¶ Henry G. (Gerry) Schwartz, Jr., Senior Professor, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri¶ C. Michael Walton, Ernest H. Cockrell Centennial Chair in Engineering, University of Texas, Austin (Past Chair, 1991)¶ Steve Williams, Chairman and CEO, Maverick Transportation, Inc., Little Rock, Arkansas¶ Thad Allen (Adm., U.S. Coast Guard), Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, Washington, D.C. (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Thomas J. Barrett (Vice Adm., U.S. Coast Guard, ret.), Administrator, Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety ¶ Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Marion C. Blakey, Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Joseph H. Boardman, Administrator, Federal Railroad Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ John A. Bobo, Jr., Acting Administrator, Research and Innovative Technology Administration, U.S. Department of ¶ Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Rebecca M. Brewster, President and COO, American Transportation Research Institute, Smyrna, Georgia (ex ofﬁcio)¶ George Bugliarello, Chancellor, Polytechnic University of New York, Brooklyn; Foreign Secretary, National Academy of ¶ Engineering, Washington, D.C. (ex ofﬁcio)¶ J. Richard Capka, Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Sean T. Connaughton, Administrator, Maritime Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Edward R. Hamberger, President and CEO, Association of American Railroads, Washington, D.C. (ex ofﬁcio)¶ John H. Hill, Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ John C. Horsley, Executive Director, American Association of State Highway and Transportation Ofﬁcials, Washington, D.C. ¶ (ex ofﬁcio)¶ J. Edward Johnson, Director, Applied Science Directorate, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, John C. Stennis ¶ Space Center, Mississippi (ex ofﬁcio)¶ William W. Millar, President, American Public Transportation Association, Washington, D.C. (ex ofﬁcio) (Past Chair, 1992)¶ Nicole R. Nason, Administrator, National Highway Trafﬁc Safety Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation ¶ (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Jeffrey N. Shane, Under Secretary for Policy, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ James S. Simpson, Administrator, Federal Transit Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation (ex ofﬁcio)¶ Carl A. Strock (Lt. Gen., U.S. Army), Chief of Engineers and Commanding General, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ¶ Washington, D.C. (ex ofﬁcio), “Research to Enhance ¶ Rail Network ¶ Performance”, </span>http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/conf/CPW3.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Another big contributor to rail efﬁciency and network ﬂuidity is safe production. BNSF ¶ has steadily reduced the number and severity of injuries each year. Technology plays a ¶ big role in these improvements. We have been working for several years on the Electronic ¶ Train Management System (ETMS), a positive train control (PTC) system that provides ¶ a safety net for train operations while retaining the existing operations and rules as a primary means of train control (Figure 15). </span>




US economic decline causes conflict
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and indeed believes the future is likely to be the result of a number of intersecting and interlocking forces. With so many possible permutations of outcomes, each with ample Revisiting the Future opportunity for unintended consequences, there is a growing sense of insecurity. Even so, history may be more instructive than ever. While we continue to believe that the Great Depression is not likely to be repeated, the lessons to be drawn from that period include the harmful effects on fledgling democracies and multiethnic societies (think Central Europe in 1920s and 1930s) and on the sustainability of multilateral institutions (think League of Nations in the same period). There is no reason to think that this would not be true in the twenty-first as much as in the twentieth century. For that reason, the ways in which the potential for greater conflict could grow would seem to be even more apt in a constantly volatile economic environment as they would be if change would be steadier. In surveying those risks, the report stressed the likelihood that terrorism and nonproliferation will remain priorities even as resource issues move up on the international agenda. Terrorism’s appeal will decline if economic growth continues in the Middle East and youth unemployment is reduced. For those terrorist groups that remain active in 2025, however, the diffusion of technologies and scientific knowledge will place some of the world’s most dangerous capabilities within their reach. Terrorist groups in 2025 will likely be a combination of descendants of long established groups_inheriting organizational structures, command and control processes, and training procedures necessary to conduct sophisticated attacks_and newly emergent collections of the angry and disenfranchised that become self-radicalized, particularly in the absence of economic outlets that would become narrower in an economic downturn. The most dangerous casualty of any economically-induced drawdown of U.S. military presence would almost certainly be the Middle East. Although Iran’s acquisition of nuclear weapons is not inevitable, worries about a nuclear-armed Iran could lead states in the region to develop new security arrangements with external powers, acquire additional weapons, and consider pursuing their own nuclear ambitions. It is not clear that the type of stable deterrent relationship that existed between the great powers for most of the Cold War would emerge naturally in the Middle East with a nuclear Iran. Episodes of low intensity conflict and terrorism taking place under a nuclear umbrella could lead to an unintended escalation and broader conflict if clear red lines between those states involved are not well established. The close proximity of potential nuclear rivals combined with underdeveloped surveillance capabilities and mobile dual-capable Iranian missile systems also will produce inherent difficulties in achieving reliable indications and warning of an impending nuclear attack. The lack of strategic depth in neighboring states like Israel, short warning and missile flight times, and uncertainty of Iranian intentions may place more focus on preemption rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises. 36 Types of conflict that the world continues to experience, such as over resources, could reemerge, particularly if protectionism grows and there is a resort to neo-mercantilist practices. Perceptions of renewed energy scarcity will drive countries to take actions to assure their future access to energy supplies. In the worst case, this could result in interstate conflicts if government leaders deem assured access to energy resources, for example, to be essential for maintaining domestic stability and the survival of their regime. Even actions short of war, however, will have important geopolitical implications. Maritime security concerns are providing a rationale for naval buildups and modernization efforts, such as China’s and India’s development of blue water naval capabilities. If the fiscal stimulus focus for these countries indeed turns inward, one of the most obvious funding targets may be military. Buildup of regional naval capabilities could lead to increased tensions, rivalries, and counterbalancing moves, but it also will create opportunities for multinational cooperation in protecting critical sea lanes. With water also becoming scarcer in Asia and the Middle East, cooperation to manage changing water resources is likely to be increasingly difficult both within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world. </span>


We have strong statistical support
Royal 10 Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict. Political science literature has contributed a moderate degree of attention to the impact of economic decline and the security and defence behaviour of interdependent states. Research in this vein has been considered at systemic, dyadic and national levels. Several notable contributions follow. First, on the systemic level, Pollins (2008) advances Modelski and Thompson's (1996) work on leadership cycle theory, finding that rhythms in the global economy are associated with the rise and fall of a pre-eminent power and the often bloody transition from one pre-eminent leader to the next. As such, exogenous shocks such as economic crises could usher in a redistribution of relative power (see also Gilpin, 1981) that leads to uncertainty about power balances, increasing the risk of miscalculation (Fearon, 1995). Alternatively, even a relatively certain redistribution of power could lead to a permissive environment for conflict as a rising power may seek to challenge a declining power (Werner, 1999). Separately, Pollins (1996) also shows that global economic cycles combined with parallel leadership cycles impact the likelihood of conflict among major, medium and small powers, although he suggests that the causes and connections between global economic conditions and security conditions remain unknown. Second, on a dyadic level, Copeland's (1996, 2000) theory of trade expectations suggests that ‘future expectation of trade’ is a significant variable in understanding economic conditions and security behaviour of states. He argues that interdependent states are likely to gain pacific benefits from trade so long as they have an optimistic view of future trade relations. However, if the expectations of future trade decline, particularly for difficult to replace items such as energy resources, the likelihood for conflict increases, as states will be inclined to use force to gain access to those resources. Crises could potentially be the trigger for decreased trade expectations either on its own or because it triggers protectionist moves by interdependent states.4 Third, others have considered the link between economic decline and external armed conflict at a national level. Blomberg and Hess (2002) find a strong correlation between internal conflict and external conflict, particularly during periods of economic downturn. They write, The linkages between internal and external conflict and prosperity are strong and mutually reinforcing. Economic conflict tends to spawn internal conflict, which in turn returns the favour. Moreover, the presence of a recession tends to amplify the extent to which international and external conflicts self-reinforce each other. (Blomberg & Hess, 2002, p. 89)Economic decline has also been linked with an increase in the likelihood of terrorism (Blomberg, Hess, & Weerapana, 2004), which has the capacity to spill across borders and lead to external tensions. Furthermore, crises generally reduce the popularity of a sitting government. ‘Diversionary theory’ suggests that, when facing unpopularity arising from economic decline, sitting governments have increased incentives to fabricate external military conflicts to create a ‘rally around the flag’ effect. Wang (1996), DeRouen (1995), and Blomberg, Hess, and Thacker (2006) find supporting evidence showing that economic decline and use of force are at least indirectly correlated. Gelpi (1997), Miller (1999), and Kisangani and Pickering (2009) suggest that the tendency towards diversionary tactics are greater for democratic states than autocratic states, due to the fact that democratic leaders are generally more susceptible to being removed from office due to lack of domestic support. DeRouen (2000) has provided evidence showing that periods of weak economic performance in the United States, and thus weak Presidential popularity, are statistically linked to an increase in the use of force. In summary, recent economic scholarship positively correlates economic integration with an increase in the frequency of economic crises, whereas political science scholarship links economic decline with external conflict at systemic, dyadic and national levels.5 This implied connection between integration, crises and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. This observation is not contradictory to other perspectives that link economic interdependence with a decrease in the likelihood of external conflict, such as those mentioned in the first paragraph of this chapter. Those studies tend to focus on dyadic interdependence instead of global interdependence and do not specifically consider the occurrence of and conditions created by economic crises. As such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.</span>

===Advantage 2- Terror=== 
High risk that terrorists will target rail now
Maurillo 12, Donna R. Masters Degree in Science of Transportation Management at Mineta Transportation Institute “Thesis - Quality Research Project Submitted in Partial Fulfillment of the Requirements for the Masters of Science in Transportation Management” pg 28-29 [[http://transweb.sjsu.edu/mtiportal/education/alumni/capstones/terror-targets-high-speed-rail-vs-intercity-rail-Maurillo.pdf]]
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">(U/FOUO) In an intelligence report dated February 28, 2011, TSA-OI “judges that al-Qa’ida (AQ), its affiliates, and other terrorists motivated by violent extremist views would be the most likely actors to target the U.S. freight rail system. This judgment is based on recent attacks against freight rail and passenger trains overseas and the recent stated goals of al-Qa’ida’s senior leadership to attack U.S. transportation.” (U/FOUO) The report also noted that “improvised explosive devices (IEDs) would be the most likely means of attack against the U.S. freight rail system.” And while there is little evidence of a terrorist threat to industrial control systems for rail, the report says that “al-Qa’ida and other violent extremist groups have a sustained interest in acquiring the skills to conduct cyber attacks. Those assessments proved accurate immediately following the killing of terror mastermind Osama bin Laden. Among the documents taken from his fortress were those that revealed an alleged plan to attack US rail transport on September 11, 2011, the tenth anniversary of the attacks on the World Trade Center. (U/FOUO) According to an FBI and DHS Joint Intelligence Bulletin, “As one option, al-Qa‘ida was looking at the possibility of tipping a train by tampering with the rails so that the train would fall off the track at either a valley or a bridge.”28 And yet, just one week after those potential plans were revealed, two security breaches were successfully carried out on the New York subway system. According to the New York Post, “Two terrifying rail security breaches occurred within hours of each other in the city yesterday – including one at the World Trade Center, where a man slipped into the PATH tunnel and walked all the way to Jersey before saying he had left a bomb in the tunnel. “That scare – and an unrelated escapade involving four ‘urban explorers’ infiltrating the under-construction Second Avenue Subway tunnel – come just days after the feds warned that al Qaeda could be targeting US trains.”</span>

Specifically, terrorists will target hazmat materials - they are prime targets for chemical attacks
Riley 4 – Director of RAND Public Safety & Justice/Vice President, RAND National Security Research Division, Ph. D in public policy analysis/M.S. in foreign service/B.A. in economics (Jack, “Terrorism and Rail Security”, March 23, RAND Corporation, http://www.rand.org/pubs/testimonies/2005/RAND_CT224.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Freight rail does not offer terrorists high densities of passenger targets, but it does provide terrorists with some opportunities that passenger rail does not afford. In particular, freight rail is used to transport hazardous materials and dangerous cargoes. An estimated 40 percent of inter-city freight, including half of the nation’s hazardous materials (based on tonmiles), moves by rail. 4 In some circumstances, these cargoes are transported through densely populated urban areas. Two accidents involving freight rail help illustrate some of the potential issues associated with hazardous cargoes: • A train carrying liquid fertilizer derailed in a small North Dakota town in January 2002. The incident killed one and hospitalized 15. The accident punctured 18 cars and resulted in a toxic cloud. Residents within a 3-mile radius of the incident were evacuated. 5 • In July 2001 a railcar caught fire in a tunnel under downtown Baltimore. The fire, which took five days to extinguish, involved chemicals and other cargo on the train. Rail movements throughout the Northeast Corridor, fiber optic communications, light rail passenger trains in the downtown area, and Amtrak passenger trains were all disrupted during the incident. </span>



PTC is critical to hazmat terror response and recovery
Williamson and Budge 5 (Ray A. Williamson¶ Research Professor Space Policy Institute ¶ of The George Washington University¶ Washington, D.C.¶ Amelia Budge¶ Clearinghouse Manager¶ Earth Data Analysis Center¶ University of New Mexico¶ Albuquerque, New Mexico, Fall, “ ¶ Improving Surface Transportation Security¶ The Role of Geospatial Technologies in Intermodal Freight and Hazardous Materials Transport”, http://www.imagingnotes.com/go/article_free.php?mp_id=20)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">For rail security, one of the primary needs is to develop “intelligent railroad systems” that employ digital data communication, data, and on-board sensors for improving safety and security of the trains and their cargos.¶ Ultimately, intelligent railroad systems allow operators to respond to unexpected events virtually anywhere in their systems. Taken together these benefits provide broad incentives for rail operators to institute such improvements as the use of digital data link communications, positive train control, nationwide differential GPS, automatic equipment identification, electronically controlled pneumatic train brakes, and intelligent grade crossings.¶ Positive train control systems are digitally linked communication systems that provide safety benefits by preventing collisions, preventing over-speed accidents, and protecting roadway workers. They can enhance rail security by monitoring location and speed of all trains, and by monitoring the status of all rail switches. Such systems can make excellent use of the National Digital GPS (NDGPS) system that is currently operational throughout most of the United States.¶ These technologies, which provide continuous, realtime information, enhance security through prevention, detection, and notification of rail accidents and other incidents. They also assist in the recovery from incidents. Because the security of information provided by intelligent railroad systems is itself of great concern, systems to provide information security must be designed into them from the beginning.¶ Remotely sensed data provide an excellent, unbiased source of information for determining rail transportation vulnerabilities. When combined with intelligent railroad systems in a GIS framework, such data provide an additional margin of safety for the transport of hazardous materials.</span>

Rerouting also solves the impact to the attack
Guerrerro 5 (Thelma Guerrerro, "Senator Urges Federal Security Plan For Hazmat Railroad Transportation," Transportation Topics 3645)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Rerouting rail cars carrying toxic chemicals would be the best way to eliminate the threat of a terrorist attack involving hazmats, Biden said. Rerouting would involve less than 5% of all hazmats shipped, he added. Biden told Senate members that nearly four years after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, DHS "officials are either unaware, or even worse, they are purposely ignoring a grave threat to our cities." The bill would require DHS to work with state and local officials to identify high- threat corridors and to determine which chemicals should be classified as extremely dangerous materials. The bill is now in the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee. American Trucking Associations said June 20 that it petitioned the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, a division of the U.S. Department of Transportation, to distinguish between hazmats that can be used as weapons and those that pose no significant security risks. If approved, the petition would authorize DOT and DHS to establish separate security regulations for each (related story, p. 2). Nelson Peacock, Biden's legislative aide, said the senator got involved in the hazmat issue to deter court battles such as the litigation involving the District of Columbia and railroad CSX Transportation. "The senator believes there should be a national policy standard to regulate shipments of hazardous materials," Peacock said. "He believes federal, state and local officials should be at the table to come up with such a policy." A back-and-forth court battle between the D.C. City Council and CSX has been ongoing since February, after Mayor Anthony Williams signed legislation passed by the Council banning certain hazmat shipments within 2.2 miles of Capitol Hill (5-9, p. 3).</span>

We would retaliate to chemical weapon attack
Mattox 3 (Lieutenant Colonel John Mark Mattox, US Army¶ Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe, with insight from U.S. Army Colonel (Retired) John Robbins, U.S. Air Force Colonel (Retired) Henry Keese, and Dr. Joseph Wolfsheimer of the Defense Threat Reduction Agency Field Office, Chievres, Belgium, for their review of preliminary versions of this paper and for their invaluable insights, “Deterring Chemical, Biological, Radiological, Nuclear, and High-Energy Weapons Use in the War Against Terrorism:
The Moral Dimension”, http://isme.tamu.edu/JSCOPE03/Mattox03.html)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Assuming, then, that it is morally permissible to respond to a CBRNE terrorist attack—perhaps even to the point of responding “pre-emptively” in the sense just described (i.e., after one has obtained the components for, demonstrated both capacity and intent to use, but before one actually has detonated, a CBRNE weapon)—one final question arises:¶ What attack mechanism could be used with moral justification to respond to terrorist use of CBRNE weapons?¶ ¶ The initial reaction might be to respond “in kind.” In fact, much of the literature on CBRNE banters around the phrase “response in kind” as if this really were possible, when in fact a “response in kind” generally is either technically infeasible or politically or morally inappropriate. Consider the following:¶ With respect to radiological weapons, no morally permissible retaliation in kind is conceivable. Radiological weapons of the kind that concern us are terrorist weapons par excellence; they scatter radioactive debris in ways that can result in long-term and utterly indiscriminate effects.¶ With respect to biological and chemical weapons, the nations of the Western Alliance possess no “in kind” retaliatory capability whatsoever. They have divested, or are in the process of divesting, themselves of all offensive biological and chemical weapons. Whatever residual capability remains beyond that earmarked for destruction is for research purposes only and in such quantities that its use for offensive purposes would not be effective. This means that, for all practical purposes, the West could retaliate militarily against the terrorist use of radiological, biological, or chemical weapons in two ways only: either with nuclear weapons or with conventional weapons. ¶ A response in kind with high-energy weapons is possible, but only with qualifications. Of course, a response in kind to the attacks of September 11, 2001, would be unthinkable. However, it is readily conceivable that a standard “high-energy” conventional munition (such as the so-called “daisy cutter” bomb used in Afghanistan) could be used, if technically appropriate for the target and taking collateral effects into account, as a response “in kind” without the need for hesitancy on moral grounds. It should be noted that high-energy precision weapons, far more elegant in their operation than the daisy cutter, are now on or beyond the drawing board and potentially will obviate the need for many present concerns over collateral damage.¶ A response in kind with nuclear weapons is possible, and this is what many authors actually have in mind when they rather carelessly invoke the phrase “in kind” with respect to CBRNE weapons. There are good and prudent reasons to reserve the right to respond “in kind” to a nuclear attack. First, state sponsors of terrorists may be very reluctant to risk using nuclear weapons precisely because they do not want an in-kind response. In this case, traditional deterrence still might prove to be an effective tool. Second, there still are targets in the world for which nuclear weapons provide the most effective attack mechanism. For example, even non-state-sponsored terrorists require some kind of infrastructure if they intend to use CBRNE weapons, and attacks on their CBRNE infrastructure may, in certain cases, be most appropriately conducted with nuclear weapons. Unfortunately, as already noted, attacking such facilities only after the fact does little or nothing to deter the terrorist who is willing to “go for broke” with the realization that his infrastructure may not last very long after his initial use of CBRNE weapons. Hence, even here, responding in kind may do little to deter the terrorist, and this in turn may serve as an argument for some kind of carefully constrained pre-emptive action.¶ In the light of the foregoing, it should be plain that much of what is written on the matter of in-kind responses to CBRNE attacks is not very helpful. As students of moral philosophy, we recognize that there is no particular moral imperative to respond in kind—in degree, perhaps, but not necessarily in kind. The requirement for responding to terrorist preparations or actions is merely that the response, whether pre-emptive or after the fact, should be appropriate in technical, political, and moral terms.</span>



That retaliation leads to superpower nuclear war
Ayson 10 – Professor of Strategic Studies and Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington (Robert, July. “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects.” Studies in Conflict & Terrorism, Vol. 33, Issue 7. InformaWorld.)

<span style="font-size: 4pt;">But these two nuclear worlds—a non-state actor nuclear attack and a catastrophic interstate nuclear exchange—are not necessarily separable. It is just possible that some sort of terrorist attack, and especially an act of nuclear terrorism, could precipitate a chain of events leading to a massive exchange of nuclear weapons between two or more of the states that possess them. In this context, today’s and tomorrow’s terrorist groups might assume the place allotted during the early Cold War years to new state possessors of small nuclear arsenals who were seen as raising the risks of a catalytic nuclear war between the superpowers started by third parties. These risks were considered in the late 1950s and early 1960s as concerns grew about nuclear proliferation, the so-called n+1 problem. It may require a considerable amount of imagination to depict an especially plausible situation where an act of nuclear terrorism could lead to such a massive inter-state nuclear war. For example, in the event of a terrorist nuclear attack on the United States, it might well be wondered just how Russia and/or China could plausibly be brought into the picture, not least because they seem unlikely to be fingered as the most obvious state sponsors or encouragers of terrorist groups. They would seem far too responsible to be involved in supporting that sort of terrorist behavior that could just as easily threaten them as well. Some possibilities, however remote, do suggest themselves. For example, how might the United States react if it was thought or discovered that the fissile material used in the act of nuclear terrorism had come from Russian stocks,40 and if for some reason Moscow denied any responsibility for nuclear laxity? The correct attribution of that nuclear material to a particular country might not be a case of science fiction given the observation by Michael May et al. that while the debris resulting from a nuclear explosion would be “spread over a wide area in tiny fragments, its radioactivity makes it [is] detectable, identifiable and collectable, and a wealth of information can be obtained from its analysis: the efficiency of the explosion, the materials used and, most important … some indication of where the nuclear material came from.”41 Alternatively, if the act of nuclear terrorism came as a complete surprise, and American officials refused to believe that a terrorist group was fully responsible (or responsible at all) suspicion would shift immediately to state possessors. Ruling out Western ally countries like the United Kingdom and France, and probably Israel and India as well, authorities in Washington would be left with a very short list consisting of North Korea, perhaps Iran if its program continues, and possibly Pakistan. But at what stage would Russia and China be definitely ruled out in this high stakes game of nuclear Cluedo? In particular, if the act of nuclear terrorism occurred against a backdrop of existing tension in Washington’s relations with Russia and/or China, and at a time when threats had already been traded between these major powers, would officials and political leaders not be tempted to assume the worst? Of course, the chances of this occurring would only seem to increase if the United States was already involved in some sort of limited armed conflict with Russia and/or China, or if they were confronting each other from a distance in a proxy war, as unlikely as these developments may seem at the present time. The reverse might well apply too: should a nuclear terrorist attack occur in Russia or China during a period of heightened tension or even limited conflict with the United States, could Moscow and Beijing resist the pressures that might rise domestically to consider the United States as a possible perpetrator or encourager of the attack? Washington’s early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise the possibility of an unwanted (and nuclear aided) confrontation with Russia and/or China. For example, in the noise and confusion during the immediate aftermath of the terrorist nuclear attack, the U.S. president might be expected to place the country’s armed forces, including its nuclear arsenal, on a higher stage of alert. In such a tense environment, when careful planning runs up against the friction of reality, it is just possible that Moscow and/or China might mistakenly read this as a sign of U.S. intentions to use force (and possibly nuclear force) against them. In that situation, the temptations to preempt such actions might grow, although it must be admitted that any preemption would probably still meet with a devastating response. As part of its initial response to the act of nuclear terrorism (as discussed earlier) Washington might decide to order a significant conventional (or nuclear) retaliatory or disarming attack against the leadership of the terrorist group and/or states seen to support that group. Depending on the identity and especially the location of these targets, Russia and/or China might interpret such action as being far too close for their comfort, and potentially as an infringement on their spheres of influence and even on their sovereignty. One far-fetched but perhaps not impossible scenario might stem from a judgment in Washington that some of the main aiders and abetters of the terrorist action resided somewhere such as Chechnya, perhaps in connection with what Allison claims is the “Chechen insurgents’ … long-standing interest in all things nuclear.”42 American pressure on that part of the world would almost certainly raise alarms in Moscow that might require a degree of advanced consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide. </span>




And railways are vulnerable to terrorist and hazardous catastrophes – err affirmative on risk- the impact destroys multiple types of infrastructures
Temple ‘7 (Bob Temple, Contributer to Group 7, think tank for Railroad Security, Quoting The GAO Report on Rail Security, The AAR Hearing on Rail Security, and The CRS Report for Congress - Passenger Rail Security: Overview of Issue, http://www.personal.psu.edu/staff/r/p/rpt117/sra211/vulnerabilities.htm, May 8, 2007)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Major Vulnerabilities to Railway Security Looking at the past, the United States has not had many major attacks on its railways. This could lead people to falsely believe that our railways are secure. Our railways do have some levels of security, but unfortunately, there is just not enough of it where it needs to be. The object of this section is to identify the major vulnerabilities to railway security. Large Area Covered by Railroads Possibly the largest, and probably most obvious, vulnerabilities to railways is the sheer amount of railroad tracks around the country. There are over 100,000 miles of rail in the United States . The extensiveness of the infrastructure creates an infinite number of targets for terrorists (GAO Report). Since the majority of these tracks are publicly owned, large sections go entirely unmonitored. One of the major problems with this vulnerability is that it is physically impossible to monitor every inch of railroad track at any given time. It just can’t be done. This leaves hundreds of miles of railroad open for terrorist attack. Points Where Cargo Is Transferred Intermodal Another vulnerability posed to railways is at points of which cargo is transferred from one mode of transportation to the other. The issue of port and border security extends far beyond the issue of rail security, although railroads, by virtue of the facts that they carry millions of containers unloaded from or loaded onto steamships each year and move hundreds of thousands of railcars and intermodal units across the Canadian and Mexican border each year, are certainly impacted (AAR Hearing). The sheer number of cargo loaded onto trains makes it physically impossible to actually examine each freight container. This makes it extremely hard to be positive no dangerous materials have made it onto trains they shouldn’t be on. An example of this vulnerability is when cargo is taken from a cargo ship at a port and then placed on a freight train for land transportation. Even if proper railway security is in place, vulnerabilities may still arise if the security at the port allowed for possibly harmful cargo to get through its own security measures. In this case, the security of the railway is directly affected by the security of other modes of transportation such as the cargo ship and port security. Train Schedule Databases Another huge security vulnerability that must be addressed is that of databases containing schedules for shipment of sensitive materials. Schedules of what shipments are going where, and what they contain are kept of trains so that they can get to where they are going efficiently. However, if access to these databases is gained by someone who is not supposed to have that information, a huge security breach could arise. If terrorists get access to schedules for hazardous material shipments, they would be able to coordinate a terrorist attack accordingly. Access to such information would allow them to know exactly where a train will be at exactly what time. This could allow for terrorists to set explosives on a track that they know a hazardous materials shipment is going to be using. This also provides terrorists with opportunities to hijack trains in areas where they know security is lax. Train Station Lack of Security Train Station A vulnerability unique to passenger trains is that they are constantly making highly predictable scheduled stops along the way to their destination. This makes it very easy for terrorist to know exactly where a train is going to be, and how to get to it. People are free to board and exit the train at each stop along the way. Unlike in airports, there are no secure areas in which all passengers must pass through designated security stations to get to. People are free to come and go as they please, and that poses a severe problem in terms of ease of access for terrorists. The nature of this vulnerability is inherent within the design of passenger trains themselves however. Train stations require that passengers be able to quickly board and exit trains. With extensive security measures in place, such as security checkpoints that passengers must go through, passenger train companies are likely to lose business. If boarding a train became too much of a hassle, passengers would be more likely to simply drive somewhere, or take other means of transportation like a bus or plane. Ambiguity in Who Is Responsible For Security The last major vulnerability with railway security is that the United States does not have one specific agency that deals with the security of its railways. In fact, it actually has over four separate agencies working on implementing security to difference aspects of the railway system. According to the GAO Report, the Transportation Security Administration, Federal Railroad Administration, Federal Transit Administration, and the Research and Special Programs Administration are all partially responsible for railway security. This poses a problem, because with the agencies working separate of one another, the possibility for gaps in security arises. If each agency thinks that the others have already thoroughly covered a particular vulnerability, it is possible that none of them will actually put in the time and work necessary to fully secure that vulnerability. Another costly problem with not having a specific agency responsible for railway security is that certain security aspects that are completely secure may be covered multiple times by multiple agencies. On the surface this seems like a good thing, because we are positive that that aspect is entirely covered. However, if you look at the financial costs of repeate dly covering the same security aspects multiple times, it becomes obvious that a large amount of funds are wasted that could be used on securing other vulnerabilities. Major Likely Forms of Attack Aimed at Railways The major forms of attack that are likely to be aimed at railways can be narrowed down to three subgroups. The purpose of this section is to identify what constitutes an attack in each of these subgroups, as well as elaborate on possible real world implementation of each subgroup. Destruction of Trains and/or Railways Themselves In this particular subgroup, the primary objective of an attack would be to cause as much destruction and damage as possible to anyone onboard, and within the immediate vicinity of a train. This can be accomplished by in many ways. The first way I will discuss is through the use of bombs on the actual trains themselves. A bomb could be placed on either a passenger train, or a freight train carrying a number of different cargos. Due to vulnerabilities in the security of actual train stations, a terrorist could place a bomb on a train and detonate it at any point while the train is in transit to its destination. Prime targets for this type of attack would be passenger trains containing a large number of passengers, as well as trains containing shipments of hazardous materials. The latter of which would most likely be detonated while the train is close to a highly populated area, such as a major city or town. Another way that terrorists could destroy a train is through making an attack with the intent to derail the targeted train. This type of attack could be orchestrated by destroying important sections of railway along a trains designated path. An example of this would be if a terrorist destroyed a bridge along a trains path before the train would have enough time to effectively stop, resulting in a derailment. An destroying a bridge like this over a waterway could be extremely destructive if the trains cargo is hazardous and ends up seeping into the water, which would result in a massive amount of pollution or contaminated water supply. An example of the contamination of a water supply by derailment is clearly illustrated below. The railroad tracks in this picture go right around this local water supply in Altoona, PA. A derailment of a train containing toxic chemicals would be catastrophic. Attacks with the aim of derailing and/or destroying a train can also come in the form of attacks made at railroad crossings. Examples of this could be by parking large vehicles filled with explosives on a railroad crossing, or even driving a an explosive filled or large vehicle into the side of a train as it passes over a railroad crossing. If orchestrated properly, the effects could be extremely damaging to any local cities or towns if chemicals or other hazardous materials are present on the train. An attack like this on a passenger train could also cause a sever loss of life. Hi-jacking of Trains In this type of attack a train’s contents is of some value to the terrorists or criminals. These contents could include chemicals which could be used as weapons, biological weapons, or in the case of a military shipment, military weapons and supplies. This type of attack sounds like something out of a movie, but it could in fact be orchestrated in a real life scenario. With information on when and where a train containing a shipment of interest, terrorist or criminals could use the resources available to them to infiltrate trains in transit and effectively hijack them. Hijackings could be particularly effective on trains that have little or no physical security on the trains themselves. An instance of this would be if a shipment of hazardous materials was only operated by a few conductors in the front car. Once on board, hijackers could easily eliminate the few conductors’ and then have full control of the train. With control of the train, and due to the vast amount of railroad tracks around the country, the hijackers could stop the train in a deserted area and make away with their cargo of interest. Breaching Railway Databases The last form of a possible attack on railways comes in the form of breaching confidential railway databases to obtain top secret information. This type of attack can be conducted either by hacking into an electronic database housing the sensitive information, or by physically obtaining the information from an onsite source. Once the information is obtained it would be more than likely sold to or used by terrorists to conduct either the first or second type of attack mentioned previously. Breaching railway databases in the previously mentioned way can actually be thought of as a preliminary step to the first two forms of attack. The reason for this is because obtaining information on hazardous material shipments allows for terrorists to better orchestrate an attack on a target, because they will know what it is carrying and where it will be. Another type of attack that could be used involving railway databases is data alteration. If someone were to access sensitive databases they could have the ability to alter the time tables of when certain trains will be on certain tracks. A variety of vulnerabilities could arise from this. A prevalent example of this would be if someone were to make it seem as though a particular track was clear, when it actually already has a train using it. This could cause anything from head on collisions to extreme confusion as to what trains are actually where they are supposed to be.</span>

===Advantage 3- Solvency=== 
Absent federal investment, rail companies will be forced to cover the cost- this diverts funding from critical assets and insures PTC is delayed
GAO 10 (Government Accountability Office, December, “RAIL SAFETY ¶ Federal Railroad ¶ Administration Should ¶ Report on Risks to the ¶ Successful ¶ Implementation of ¶ Mandated Safety ¶ Technology”, http://www.gao.gov/assets/320/314033.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The four largest freight railroads and Amtrak have made progress in ¶ developing PTC and are preparing for implementation, but there is a potential ¶ for delays in completing the remaining sequence of steps to implement PTC in ¶ time for the 2015 deadline. For example, although railroads have worked with ¶ suppliers to develop some PTC components, the software needed to test and ¶ operate these components remains under development. As a result, it is ¶ uncertain whether components will be available when needed, which could ¶ create subsequent delays in testing and installing PTC equipment. ¶ Additionally, publicly funded commuter railroads may have difficulty in ¶ covering the $2 billion that PTC is estimated to cost them, which could create ¶ delays if funding for PTC is not available or require that railroads divert ¶ funding from other critical areas, such as maintenance. The uncertainties ¶ regarding when the remaining steps to implement PTC can be completed, as ¶ well as the related costs, raise the risk that railroads will not meet the ¶ implementation deadline, delaying the safety benefits of PTC. Additionally, ¶ other critical needs may go unmet if funding is diverted to pay for PTC. </span>

Federal funding is critical to meet the 2015 deadline
FRA 12 (Federal Rail Administration, August, “Federal Railroad Administration¶ Report to Congress, Positive Train Control¶ Implementation Status, Issues, and Impacts”, pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Also of importance, is the invalidity of a key assumption of the public sector intercity¶ passenger and commuter railroads. When the RSIA was passed in 2008, the industry was¶ operating under the premise that a new, long-term reauthorization bill would increase Federal¶ capital support for commuter rail systems through FTA grants or that additional Federal¶ funding would be made available to assist in the implementation of PTC. However, more¶ than 3 years later, the majority of FTA grants have been funded through short-term¶ extensions of the Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A¶ Legacy for Users (SAFETEA-LU) (Pub. L. 109-59) and no long-term bill has been enacted.¶ This reduces funding certainty and affects the commuter railroads’ ability to implement longterm¶ plans. Additional public funding was fundamental to commuter railroads’ ability to¶ achieve the 2015 deadline.27 Coupled with the absence of a long-term funding solution is a¶ global recession that continues to impact State and local revenue sources that traditionally¶ support the non-Federal share of commuter capital and operating expenses. Representatives of intercity passenger and commuter railroads have testified before¶ Congress28 that the lack of additional public funding and the mandated 2015 completion date¶ has placed some intercity passenger and commuter railroads in the situation of choosing¶ between performing critical system safety, state of good repair upgrades, such as bridge¶ reconstruction or electrical subsystem upgrades, and implementing PTC systems by 2015.¶ With a backlog of unfunded good repair projects of approximately $78 billion,29 diversion of¶ resources by the intercity passenger and commuter railroads to implement PTC systems is to¶ the further detriment of other essential projects. FRA is concerned that such diversion¶ decisions could create future large-scale safety or operations problems that present greater¶ risks than those that PTC is intended to prevent.</span>

PTC tech exists and is key to solvency
Berman 2/28 (Jeff- Group News Editor Logistics Management, “AAR says it remains committed to Positive Train Control implementation”, http://www.logisticsmgmt.com/article/aar_says_it_remains_committed_to_positive_train_control_implementation/)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">At last December’s RailTrends Conference hosted by Progressive Railroading magazine and independent rail analyst Tony Hatch, Deborah Hersman, Chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, said that the technology for improved railroad safety is already there.¶ But what is needed, she said, is the will.¶ “The railroad community should have solved this by now,” she said. “Some of you have been involved in PTC pilots or tests dating back decades. 20 years ago I worked for members of Congress that supported these types of programs. We can do better. It is time to refocus on rail safety and [PTC]. The rails are safer and stronger, but there is still some distance to go. Railroads have so many tremendous growth opportunities and a role to play in our nation’s economy and its future. [Rails] could be carrying more of the load and carrying it more safely and efficiently.”¶ Hersman added that PTC could be key in reducing delays in costs, raising effective capacity, increasing reliability, improving customer satisfaction and energy utilization, reducing emissions, increasing security, and making railroads more economically viable.¶ “A fully implemented PTC can be a win-win for society and the railroads,” she said.</span>

The plan’s shift to preventive based technology is key- funding is key
JCWTC 12 (Joint Council on Wireless Transit Communication, May, “Positive Train Control¶ White Paper – May 2012”, http://transitwireless.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/05/PTC_whitepaper_may2012_ver2.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Technical Architecture¶ PTC is an overlay technology on existing reactive train control systems such ¶ as Automatic Train Control (ATC) and Automatic Train Stop (ATS) which ¶ would not prevent collisions under all circumstances. PTC involves robust, ¶ predictive technology that detects upcoming conditions and takes control of ¶ the train when needed. PTC technical architecture comprises four key ¶ segments; Back Ofﬁce, Communications, Locomotive, Wayside, and ¶ Maintenance of Way (MOW). ¶ The Back Ofﬁce typically comprises a computer-aided dispatching system, ¶ and a PTC server and database storing information about tracks, train ¶ consists, work zones, and speed restrictions. The Back Ofﬁce issues ¶ movement authorities to Locomotives based on aspect information received ¶ from PTC-enabled Wayside signals and switches, location information ¶ received from trains, and work status from Maintenance of Way vehicles and ¶ personnel. PTC improves upon in-track transponder-based train positioning¶ through the use of augmented GPS that provides more accurate location. ¶ Use of GPS also mitigates the signiﬁcant cost of deploying in-track ¶ transponders (balises) on railroads nationwide.¶ Wireless network facilities are key to the successful deployment of PTC yet ¶ in the RSIA mandate there was no common standard for PTC radio ¶ spectrum. Advanced Train Control System (ATCS) – an early open standard ¶ developed by all railroads – primarily used 900MHz radio channels, while ¶ Advanced Railroad Electronic System (ARES) – a competing system ¶ developed by BNSF – used only 160MHz radios. PTC required a common ¶ radio platform and 220MHz VHF was chosen for the following key reasons:¶ • Existing 160MHz channels were too congested;¶ • 900MHz channels could not support sufﬁcient data load;¶ • 220MHz had suitable propagation characteristics and was priced right; ¶ other frequencies were too expensive to acquire.¶ Typically 220MHz will be used to communicate between wayside systems ¶ and the locomotive, and in many cases between the locomotive and the ¶ intermediary network to the back ofﬁce. Some deployments may use multiradio systems for back ofﬁce communication from the locomotive and ¶ maintenance-of-way vehicles (e.g. hi-rail) including 220MHz, public cellular ¶ networks and private trackside ﬁxed wireless infrastructure.¶ Technology Funding¶ There are no federal stimulus funds available to help underwrite the cost of ¶ PTC implementation for freight operators. However $50 million in Railroad ¶ Safety Technology Program grants, administered by FRA, were made ¶ available in late 2010 to help develop essential PTC technologies15. Almost ¶ 50% of this ($21 million) was awarded to MeteorComm to build “the required ¶ radio platform for an interoperable communications network across multiple ¶ railroads”. $12.8 million went to Amtrak to develop interoperability between ¶ the operator’s ACSES system and the Class 1s’ V-EMTS, and a further $13 ¶ million between other regional operators towards systems’ interoperability.</span>



=Round 5= 
Neg vs. Hendrickson BS (Disabilities)

===Strategy=== 
T- maintenance (2NC)
CIR w/ econ and morality
K of Disabled vs. Able'd Binary (2NC)
PIC out of the word accessible (1/2NR)
Util/Predictions good

===1NC PIC Shell=== 

TEXT: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in transgenerational design transportation infrastructure.
The term “accessible” is tied to a narrow and predetermined set of requirements – the plan imposes minimum standards.
Erlandson, Enderle, and Winters 6 (Robert E., Researcher in the Applied Physics Laboratory at Johns Hopkins University, John D., Professor of Biomedical Engineering, and Electrical & Computer Engineering at the University of Connecticut, Jack M., Ph.D., Professor of Biomedical Engineering and Co-Director of Falk Neurorehabilitation Engineering Research Center at Marquette University, “Educating Engineers in Universal and Accessible Design,” www.rerc-ami.org/ami/book/chap/pt2_erlandson-edit1.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">This definition includes the term accessible. A problem with this definition for the United States is that accessible design has assumed a legal context for its meaning. Accessible design derives its legal meaning from laws such as the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) [Access Board,1999 #4], Section 255 of the Telecommunication’s Act of 1996 [Access Board, 1998 #20], and Section 508 amendments to the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 [Access Board, 2000 #16]. The latter includes procurement of electronic and information technologies (E&IT) by federal agencies. The Access Board provides technical assistance to the federal government regarding implementation of these laws, and has published accessibility guidelines that provide specific design guidelines as related to each of the three laws mentioned [Access Board, 2001 #39]. These laws also mention that products need to be compatible with assistive technology devices used by people with disabilities or able to be modified so as to be rendered accessible. The following definition of accessible design emphasizes the legal roots. Accessible design is the design of entities that satisfy specific legal mandates, guidelines, or code requirements with the intent of providing accessibility to the entities for individuals with disabilities. This definition of accessible design focuses on the legal implications of the term. The definition is an expansion of the 1991 Center for Accessible Housing’s definition [Center for Accessible Housing, 1991 #64] which referred only to “code requirements.” As the legal environment has evolved, it is necessary to reflect the legal changes in the definition. Emerging and practicing engineers need to know and understand the legal mandates that will apply to their professional design activities. Emerging and practicing engineers need to know where to go to get specific design requirements and guidelines. It is the responsibility of faculty to provide such knowledge to our emerging engineers. It is incumbent upon professional organizations to educate practicing engineers through professional development activities. It is the responsibility of practicing engineers to seek out knowledge. For these reasons it makes sense to more narrowly define accessible design from a legal perspective. The laws and Access Board guidelines provide a neat, readymade, packaging of the required materials.</span>


Language shapes reality – the choice of a term so closely tied to minimum standards shuts down creativity in design and stigmatizes persons with disabilities as inconvenient legal nuisances.
Bringolf 8 (Jane, Former Executive Director with the Independent Living Centre NSW (New South Wales), Recipient of the Churchill Fellowship, Multi, Volume 1 Number 2, Spring/Summer, “Universal Design: Is it Accessible?” p. 46-47)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Language has played, and continues to play, a major role in the development of universal design. Words have the power to define, categorise, and construct meaning. One person assigns a name to something, others learn the name, continue to use it, and through tacit agreement a common understanding of the meaning is established. This rule of common usage means that if I call a chair a lamp, but mean something to sit on, it would be very confusing to others. This is not true of all words, however. Although some words are erroneously used interchangeably, as in the case of using “aggravated” (to make worse) instead of “annoyed” when meaning “to be angry”, the intended meaning is understood because the word is commonly misused (Hospers, 1987).¶ Another example of how words can be erroneously used interchangeably, and yet understood, is on architectural drawings which have terms such as “disabled toilet”, “disabled ramp”, and “disabled parking”. In spite of such toilets, ramps and parking places being fully operational, in this context “disabled” is now commonly used as a short form for “items for people with a disability”. Interestingly, the grammatically correct form, “accessible toilet”, etc., was not chosen over “disabled”. Choosing the grammatically incorrect term shows the value-laden thinking that designers apply to the design features by choosing to identify the attribute of the user (disabled) and not the product or building feature (accessible).¶ Architectural drawings and public toilets signed as “disabled toilet” clearly show where the focus of thinking remains. If we now merge the notions of disability, accessibility and universal design, we have a three cornered association emerging as a factor which we can call “things for people with a disability”. Because universal design automatically includes people with a disability, this is not an issue per se, but the potential for universal design to get bogged down in legislation is more problematic. Advantages and disadvantages of legislation Legislation is the antithesis of the original concept of universal design because it locks designs into a given point in time and impedes the notion of continuous design improvement. Nevertheless, there are those who believe that universal design should take the legislative route. Advocates of people with disabilities have good reason to believe that nothing will improve without legislation. It was not until disability discrimination legislation was enacted, that people with disabilities could participate in education, housing, employment, sport, entertainment and recreational pursuits on an equal basis as non-disabled people. The advantage of legislation is that it forces designers to consider the needs of people with a disability. Good “accessible” design is by and large, good design for most people because it considers physical, cognitive, and sensory, aspects of all users. The disability rights movement fears that market forces, and changes in design thinking will be insufficient to guarantee desired results any time soon, and that legislation is the safer route in spite of the negative effects. The major disadvantage of taking the legislative route is that it has a focus on people with a disability. The benefits for others are lost in the quest to meet the requirements of regulations. Legislation encourages designers to think in terms of specialised designs—the very notion universal design is trying to prevent. From the designers’ creative perspective, regulations are not welcome because they remove opportunities for creative thought. The needs of people with a disability become just another legal problem. Legislation, codes and rules cannot cover all situations and events. When legislation is devised, every eventuality cannot be predicted and accounted for. Consequently, legislation can lead to mistakes, inequities, and poor design for everyone, not just people with a disability. Legislation sets design standards at a point in time and is counter-intuitive to the concept of continuously improving designs through an evolutionary process – one of the basic tenets of universal design. As each new design is implemented, it can be evaluated in practice and improvements incorporated into the next version. The alternative to legislation is education, but it is unlikely to be the guiding light of universal design in the near future.</span>

Prefer the term “transgenerational design” – the CP fosters creativity and avoids the stigma DA.
TDM 9 (Transgenerational Design Matters, “What is ‘transgenerational design?’” http://transgenerational.org/viewpoint/transgenerational.htm)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">TRANSGENERATIONAL DESIGN is NOT about producing products for "the aged," "elderly housing," or homes for "the handicapped." And it's NOT about designing "accessible" products or environments that mindlessly conform to bureaucratically imposed principles, standards, dimensions and diagramatically mandated "solutions." Designs produced with code-compliant concentration usually result in starkly functional, impersonal products and environments that lack human sensitivity, interest, and appeal (i.e., grab bars, threshold ramps, hand rails, door knob extenders, bathtub handles, raised toilet seats), which reek with "institutional," "medical," "aging," and "disability" connotations. Transgenerational designs sympathize rather than stigmatize.</span>


===1NR Word PIC Good Card=== 
More Evidence – Language shapes reality in the context of disabilities – stigmatizing terms exclude persons with disabilities according to a logic of sameness that shuts down social interaction.
Eliason 5 (Stephen L., associate professor of sociology at Montana State University Billings, Great Plains Sociologist, Vol. 17 Issue 2, “Language and the Social Construction of Reality: Spinning Social Reality with Euphemisms,” p. 69)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Some words are stigmatizing, which means that they tend to discredit individuals and pose a barrier to social interaction. For instance, some students said that euphemisms for retard are words like “slow” or “mentally challenged.” This provides an excellent opportunity to discuss the concepts of stigma (Goffman 1963) and labeling, and to illustrate how the type of language we use has the potential to stigmatize certain segments of the population. I point out that although “slow” is meant to be an inoffensive expression in this case, people-first language is now used to describe individuals who possess disabilities. Instead of saying that someone who has mental retardation is “retarded” or a “mental retard” or “slow,” it is proper to refer to them as a “person with mental retardation” in order to reduce the stigma associated with the other labels.</span>




=Round 6= 

===1ac – Plan=== 
====The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment to and in the United States National Park System.==== 
===1ac – Wetlands=== 
Visitor revenues and national park service resources fund wetland preservation
NPCA 12 (Sandy Sheehy, “Can a Flood of Tourists Protect the Wetlands – and the Region – from Storm Surges?” Summer 2012, [[http://www.npca.org/assets/pdf/Cite_89_Sheehy_LSCNRA.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Like other forms of national parks, national seashores involve the federal government’s buying up historically or scenically important real estate, often using the concept of eminent domain to leverage property from reluctant buyers. Beginning with Yellowstone in 1872 and proliferating after the National Parks Service Act of 1916, national parks have entailed the U.S. Department of the Interior owning and managing scenically or historically important real estate, creating and managing tourism infrastructure, and strictly regulating concessions for lodging, food service, canoe rentals, and the like. To keep the parks within the vacation budgets of average Americans, entrance fees are maintained at a level that doesn’t begin to cover costs. Most of the expense is borne by taxpayers whose enjoyment of the natural wonders will be limited to calendar photos and Discovery Channel documentaries, because these unspoiled natural areas often are far from major cities. (For example, Big Bend National Park is 12 hours from Houston, eight from San Antonio and even four from El Paso.) Extending its scope to all the precious marshes in and near Galveston Bay (the country’s second-largest bay after Chesapeake) and to the barrier island and peninsulas protecting them from the open Gulf, SSPEED brought together state and federal agencies, nonprofit conservation groups, local governments and representatives of the tourist industry to explore an alternative: create a national recreation area extending from Winnie and High Island, along the Bolivar Peninsula and southwest to Matagorda Bay. Save the wetlands and let THEM protect the built environment on the mainland by offering an economic incentive to local residents: greatly increased revenue from tourists – tourists drawn by the natural assets themselves, not by elaborate, expensive resorts and golf courses. And let’s call it something that would stir Texas pride – the Lone Star Coastal National Recreation Area (LSCNRA). As proposed in the LSCNRA, the National Park Service contributes expertise and coordination, giving nonprofit organizations, state and government entities, private property-owners, and entrepreneurs incentives to work together and defray overall costs. Those cooperating entities also reap tremendous economic benefits from recreation and tourism activities. “It’s a recreation area, but it’s also a way for conservation to abound along the coast,” says Bedient. Although a national recreation area is a congressionally-created unit of the National Park Service, as proposed, the recreation area’s assets will be primarily owned by private individuals and businesses, or by other government entities or nonprofits. Participation by landowners is voluntary; but if they want their fishing marina, for example, to be promoted as part of this government-sanctioned tourist destination, they must sign an agreement stipulating that certain mutually acceptable conditions will be met. The SSPEED team recognized that political and business expertise would be essential to the project’s success. They persuaded distinguished statesman Secretary James A. Baker III to become honorary chair of the steering committee. As chair, they enlisted Houston businessman John Nau III, who with his wife, Bobbie, owns Silver Eagle Distributorship, the second-largest beer distributorship in the U.S. Believing that business leaders have an obligation to do public service, Nau had previously focused his volunteer efforts on historic preservation, creating a business-based model for taking preserved assets, from battlefields to old forts, and translating that into “preservation for a purpose” – in other words, tourism and economic development. At the request of President George W. Bush, Nau came to the Alabama and Mississippi coast right after Katrina and witnessed the role the marshlands, estuaries, and barrier islands played in protecting areas of development. Those experiences combined to fire his enthusiasm about the Lone Star National Coastal Recreation Area. “It combines the economic benefits of tourism and the ecological benefits of marshland,” Nau explains, “and it focuses the attention of local residents on these assets. On top of that it’s 100 percent voluntary, which is how Texans view their land. That’s absolutely the sweet spot.” One advantage to the national recreation area approach is that for more than three decades it’s been shown to work. The U.S. now has 18, with one of the oldest, Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area, abutting Los Angeles. LSNCRA task force member Lynn Scarlett, who was Deputy Secretary of the Interior under President George W. Bush, considers Boston Harbor Islands National Recreation Area a good model for the Upper Texas Coast, partly because of its combination of natural and historical assets. Established in 1996, Boston Harbor Islands NRA incorporates 34 islands and peninsulas, lighthouses dating to the 18th century and a Civil War-era prison. “The creation of a national recreation area provided some glue and coordination, along with some federal money and considerable technical expertise from the National Park Service, which knows so much about interpreting this nation’s history and natural environment,” Scarlett explains. For example, Outward Bound is a non-profit that owns land on Thompson Island in Boston Harbor. Their ability to provide outdoor experiences for youth is greatly enhanced by the gateway visitor’s center, maps, brochures, and the more regular ferry service brought about under the national recreation area. The non-profit, however, retains control over who has access to its land. Another island features a historic fort and others public beaches. As Scarlett says, “The recreation area takes disparate parts and provides the glue for a greater whole.” The proposed LSNCRA is proposed to incorporate sizable portions of Chambers, Galveston, Brazoria and Matagorda counties, which have more than 350,000 acres of bays and estuaries. Partners might include the Anahuac and Brazoria National Wildlife Refuges and the 5,000-member Houston Audubon Society with its 2400 acres of sanctuaries. Between March and May 2011 HAS sanctuaries at High Island and on the Bolivar shore drew 12,000 visitors representing 47 states and 15 foreign countries. These are the kind of tourists any region would want. As Diane Olsen, president of the Galveston Island Nature Tourism Council, puts it: “Nature tourists are a different breed. They prefer things that are undisturbed. They’re more considerate of their surroundings. And they certainly have the money to spend.” Visitors would access the LSNCRA through three highways leading off Interstate 10– US 288, I-45 and SH 124 – utilizing accommodations, restaurants, and similar services in Freeport, Galveston, High Island and along the Bolivar Peninsula. A lot of the infrastructure is in place, at least for the start. Raised walkways, docks for kayak rentals and guide services, and rustic eco-lodges would be constructed with future hurricanes in mind. “The buildings and other structures would be elevated,” Bedient says. “If they were taken out by a storm hit, it wouldn’t be taking out entire subdivisions.” In February the task force released a report predicting that by its tenth year of operation the Lone Star National Coastal Recreation Area would add 5,260 new jobs to the region, including 11 percent more in tourism, and would infuse $192 million into the local economy. That money will come from the pockets of an additional 1.5 million visitors. Wouldn’t that many people threaten the wetlands ecosystem the program intends to save? “Alaska has already seen changes due to increased tourism,” concedes Gina Donovan, executive director of the Houston Audubon Society. “But I’d rather have the opportunity to connect people with nature. Due to urban sprawl, the area is going to be affected. If it’s going to be impacted negatively, I’d rather have it be by people enjoying it.” The project is being pursued in collaboration with the National Parks Conservation Association and Houston Wilderness. Along the coast, response to the proposed LSCNRA has ranged from cautiously positive to exuberant. Bob Stokes, president of the Galveston Bay Foundation, calls it “a promising opportunity,” but adds “a lot of pieces have to come together to make it work from a conservation perspective.”</span>

Tourism – and infrastructure that increases tourism – increase awareness, support, and funding for wetland conservation
Kotios et. al. 09 – Angelos, Professor, Department of Planning and Regional Development @ the University of Thessaly (Panagiotis Plageras Professor, Technological Educational Institute of Larissa, Georgios Galanos, Manolis Koutoulakis, Yiannis Saratsis, “The Impact of Tourism on Water Demand and Wetlands: Searching for a Sustainable Coexistence”, Discussion Paper Series, 15(4): 71-88, [[http://www.prd.uth.gr/uploads/discussion_papers/2009/uth-prd-dp-2009-04_en.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Wetland tourism is able to contribute to a growing awareness of the value of ecosystems protection. In this way tourism can create public support for the conservation of wetlands. The development of tourist activities in wetland areas can be a way to reduce external costs of wetland protection and make wetlands economically viable. Typically, visitors of wetlands come in small numbers, stay longer, are more aware about the values of the protected area an d the need for environmental protection, respect local culture and therefore have less impact on the local community, its culture, and the environment. Local business and people may provide transportation, accommodation, food, guided visits, recreation, cultural events, traditional goods etc., resulting in valuable income for local community. Investments in infrastructure and in construction of tourist facilities can create additional income via multiplicatory effects. By providing direct and indirect employment and income for local people, wetland tourism can create strong local interests in favour of protection. </span>


US wetlands are key because they are geographically isolated
Comer 5 (Patrick, Chief Ecologist/Conservation Planner of NatureServe Western Regional Office and Director of the Terrestrial Ecology Department of NatureServe’s Science Division, 12-1-05, “Biodiversity Values of Geographically Isolated Wetlands in the United States”, [[http://www.natureserve.org/publications/isolatedwetlands.jsp]], ACC: 2.3.09, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Significant wetland diversity exists in every state of the nation. Of 276 types of wetland described for the United States, 81 (29%) met our project-specific definition of “geographically isolated.” These types of wetlands may no longer be regulated under the Clean Water Act. Their regulation will therefore largely be determined by how lawmakers, regulators, and the courts interpret the term “isolated.” Of the 636 U.S. terrestrial ecological system types (both upland and wetland) currently classified and described by NatureServe (NatureServe 2005), these 81 isolated wetland types amount to 13% of all “natural/near-natural” terrestrial ecological system types. This study documents that isolated wetland ecological systems support high levels of biodiversity, including significant numbers of at-risk species and plant communities. For example: • A total of 274 at-risk plant and animal species are supported by isolated wetlands, with more than one-third (35%) apparently restricted to these wetland types. At-risk animal species are even more closely tied to isolated wetlands; more than one-half of at-risk animals considered in this study appear to be obligate to isolated wetland habitats. • A total of 86 plant and animal species listed as threatened, endangered, or candidates under the Endangered Species Act are supported by isolated wetland habitats. This represents about 5% of all plant and animal species currently listed under the Act. A majority (52%) of these listed species are completely dependent on isolated wetland habitat for their survival. • Nearly half of isolated wetland types (35 of 81, or 43%) are known to support at least one listed species under the Endangered Species Act. • On average 6% of the at-risk plant species in a given state are directly supported by isolated wetlands. • Nearly one-quarter of U.S. counties (725 counties, or 23%) harbor at least one at-risk species associated with isolated wetland habitats, and 80 of these counties have five or more such species. Ten or more at-risk species associated with isolated wetlands are confirmed from 18 counties of California, South Carolina, North Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, Nevada, and Hawaii. Merced County, California leads with 20 at-risk species tied to isolated wetland habitats. • A total of 279 at-risk vegetation associations (9% of all plant community types classified in the U.S. National Vegetation Classification) were documented as being characteristic of isolated wetlands, and two-thirds (67%) of these associations are not found in any other types of habitat. Wetlands that can be considered “geographically isolated” represent a considerable amount of the United States’ ecological diversity and provide habitat for a considerable portion of the nation’s flora and fauna. Significant loss of isolated wetland habitats could seriously affect opportunities for the survival and recovery of the many rare or endangered species that depend on them. States, tribes and local governments will increasingly be in a position to decide the fate of those isolated wetlands that no longer are protected under the Clean Water Act. The information and analyses contained in this study are designed to assist policy-makers and land managers at federal, state, and local levels to better understand their biodiversity value and plan for their conservation.</span>

Wetlands are key to the hydro cycle – the impact is extinction
Ramsar Convention, 96, “Ramsar Convention on Wetlands, Wetlands and Biodiversity, Executive Summary”, [[http://www.ramsar.org/about/about_biodiversity.htm]], ACC: 12.20.08, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Wetlands - including (inter alia) rivers, lakes, marshes, estuaries, lagoons, mangroves, seagrass beds, and peatlands - are among the most precious natural resources on Earth. These highly varied ecosystems are natural areas where water accumulates for at least part of the year. Driven by the hydrological cycle, water is continuously being recycled through the land, sea and atmosphere in a process which ensures the maintenance of ecological functions. Wetlands support high levels of biological diversity: they are, after tropical rainforests, amongst the richest ecosystems on this planet, providing essential life support for much of humanity, as well as for other species. Coastal wetlands, which may include estuaries, seagrass beds and mangroves, are among the most productive, while coral reefs contain some of the highest known levels of biodiversity (nearly one-third of all known fish species live on coral reefs). Other wetlands also offer sanctuary to a wide variety of plants, invertebrates, fishes, amphibians, reptiles and mammals, as well as to millions of both migratory and sedentary waterbirds. Wetlands are not only sites of exceptional biodiversity, they are also of enormous social and economic value, in both traditional and contemporary societies. Since ancient times, people have lived along water courses, benefiting from the wide range of goods and services available from wetlands. The development of many of the great civilisations was largely based on their access to, and management of, wetland resources.</span>


Globally – National Parks are key to wetland preservation
Kotios et. al. 09 – Angelos, Professor, Department of Planning and Regional Development @ the University of Thessaly (Panagiotis Plageras Professor, Technological Educational Institute of Larissa, Georgios Galanos, Manolis Koutoulakis, Yiannis Saratsis, “The Impact of Tourism on Water Demand and Wetlands: Searching for a Sustainable Coexistence”, Discussion Paper Series, 15(4): 71-88, [[http://www.prd.uth.gr/uploads/discussion_papers/2009/uth-prd-dp-2009-04_en.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">In many countries and especially in developing countries with high levels of biodiversity national or local governments and conservation organizations have inadequate funds to respond properly to wetland conservation. In these countries tourism is a promising fund raising source that can be used for bearing the conservation cost. Also tourism is a vital alternative to other uses like agriculture, hunting, water use etc., that could damage or destroy wetlands. In numerous instances the positive economic benefits of tourism has been the catalyst for preserving the ecosystem of wetlands (Bacon, 1987; Farrell and Runyan, 1991). National parks and plants in numerous countries, including those in east Africa, were developed almost exclusively because they attract international tourists (Boo, 1990; Farrell and Runyan, 1991). “Additionally, ecotourism can help develop local pride in community resources and a sense of uniqueness in the area when local landowners and local business find that ‘outsiders’ value their area” (Farell and McLellan 1987). It encourages local organisations and local people working with visitors to promote this sense of pride in their environment and to activate further wetland stakeholders. If wetland tourism is combined with research and education programs, it can help educate local authorities, local organizations, landowners, fishermen, hunters, businessmen and the general public with regards to the functions and economic/tourist benefits of wetlands.</span>

The aff would be modeled globally
NPS 09 – National Park Service (“World Heritage Convention”, [[http://www.nps.gov/oia/topics/worldheritage/worldheritage.htm]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The United States established Yellowstone as a national park in 1872 and initiated the worldwide movement to protect such areas as national treasures. One hundred years later, during the Nixon administration, the United States proposed the World Heritage Convention to the international community and was the first nation to ratify it. The World Heritage Convention, the most widely accepted international conservation treaty in human history, is the American national park idea being carried out worldwide.</span>

===1ac – Wildfires=== 
Roads in national forests are key to contain wildfires
Burnett 7 – Sterling, PhD in Environmental Science at the NCPA (“Protecting the Environment Through the Ownership Society,” NCPA, 1-17-07, [[http://www.ncpa.org/pub/st295?pg=4]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Environmentalists and Forests. Unfortunately, declining construction and road closures have failed to improve forest health. Indeed, recreation in national forests has increased but visitors are packed onto fewer poorly maintained roads:¶  Recreational users make more than 800 million visits per year (some visitors make multiple visits) to camp, motorbike, ride horses, hunt and hike.30¶  From 1946 to 2000 overnight visitors increased 18-fold to more than 214 million, and in 2002 there were 215 million visitors who simply drove through or stopped at scenic overlooks.31¶  However, while only 7 percent of all forest roads are paved, 80 percent are open to public use.32¶  This increase in recreational-user traffic has left the Forest Service with an estimated $8.4 billion road maintenance and improvement backlog.33¶ Some Forest Roads Are Beneficial. If forest roads were nothing more than a harmful drain on the U.S. Treasury, the Clinton administration's decision to implement a roadless policy might have been a good plan. However, forest roads serve important national and local purposes, providing benefits — including some environmental benefits — which should be considered before declaring current roadless areas off-limits to future road building. According to the Society of American Foresters, properly constructed and maintained forest roads are necessary for the Forest Service to carry out its multiple-use mission. Just focusing on the agency's environmental responsibilities indicates the critical need for roads. For example, for a number of years, a rising share of public timber sales has been undertaken for "stewardship" purposes — meaning they have an environmentally beneficial purpose. These sales are expected to account for 60 percent or more of total timber sales in the future.34 However, few of these stewardship sales will be economically or technically feasible in roadless areas. "Roads are necessary to thin trees for wildlife habitat and reduce fire hazards." Wildlife habitat improvements also depend on the kind of active forest management that requires roads. For example, the Forest Service has argued that the Mexican spotted owl may benefit from timber harvests that maintain old-growth pine habitats and alleviate risk from wildfires, insects and disease.35 Other species that depend on active forest management include red-cockaded woodpeckers, Kirtland's warblers, goshawks and snowshoe hares (a primary prey species for lynx). In addition, active forest management is generally good for game species and, when properly done, creates a mix of habitats and trees of diverse ages that are generally beneficial for many species. Thus, the roadless designations hamper wildlife management activities. Overcrowding and Forest Fires. The reduction in road building and timber harvesting has led to overcrowding — forests filled with too many living and dying or dead trees:¶  Historically, large ponderosa pines grew in stands of 20 to 55 trees per acre in the Western national forests; today they grow in densities of 300 to 900 trees per acre.36¶  National forests in California have an estimated 10 to 20 times more trees than is "natural" — making them dangerously overcrowded.37¶ Overcrowding contributes to the continuing decline in forests' health. It also increases the likelihood and severity of fires. [See Figure II.] According to Forest Service figures, fully 60 percent of national forest land is unhealthy and faces abnormal fire hazards.38 And of the more than 90 million acres at high risk for catastrophic fires, 14 million acres are located in designated roadless areas.39 "Overcrowded and diseased trees increase the risk of forest fires." Access to forests for fire management is perhaps the most important environmental benefit that roads provide. Yet, environmentalists' lawsuits against the Forest Service have successfully halted or delayed attempts to thin various forests using such techniques as salvage logging of dead trees in areas that have already suffered catastrophic fires. They also argued for a policy of active neglect — allowing naturally started fires to burn (unless or until they become a threat to developed areas). As a result, the Service still fights fires resulting from human carelessness or arson, but now often allows forest fires sparked by lightning to burn. And in many places, the Service has even engaged in small-scale prescribed burns to help the forests regenerate by mimicking the historic fire patterns in the Western forests. </span>



Wildfires are a major cause of climate change
Carlson 9 - Ann, Faculty Director for the UCLA Environmental Law Center (“Wildfires Cause Climate Change, Climate Change Causes Wildfires,”, The Huffington Post, 5-8-09, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ann-carlson/wildfires-cause-climate-c_b_200240.html]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">An obvious question about the raging wildfire in Santa Barbara is whether climate change is the cause. While it's impossible to blame any individual fire on increasing temperatures, we know that climate change is responsible for more frequent and more intense wildfires in the southwest. But less obvious and at least as troubling is that wildfires cause climate change by burning vegetation that acts as a carbon sink. So wildfires are related to climate change in two important and related ways: they cause and are caused by increases in greenhouse gas emissions. Here's the evidence about more frequent and more intense fires. Scripps Institute scientists have found that the principal reason wildfires have increased dramatically over the past thirty years is because warm temperatures cause earlier snowpack melting and resulting drier summers. Over the past twenty years fires in the southwest United States have consumed six times more land than in previous decades. California is expected to see temperatures rise by as much as 10 to 12 degrees F by the end of the 21st century, to face large declines in Sierra snowpack and to experience more frequent and more prolonged drought. Thus the trend we're already witnessing will intensify. The only question will be by how much, which depends in large measure on whether we can slow the accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. Here's the evidence about how wildfires cause climate change. A team of 22 scientists from around the world just published a report assessing the global impact of wildfires. The combination of intentional and unintentional fires -- by burning carbon-storing vegetation -- has contributed a whopping 20 percent of all human-caused greenhouse gas emissions since the industrial revolution. Moreover fires create black carbon soot, which then absorbs the sun's energy and heats the ground, adding to climate change. Much of the burning is done intentionally, as fire is a cheap and easy way to clear forests for agriculture and other development. But unintended wildfires, though part of a natural process, have now increased in magnitude and frequency because of human contributions to climate change. The combination means that fires are increasingly contributing to greenhouse gas emissions.</span>

That triggers a feedback loop that overwhelms natural checks on warming
Venkataramanan and Smitha 11(Department of Economics, D.G. Vaishnav College, Chennai, India Indian Journal of Science “Causes and effects of global warming p.226-229 March 2011 [[http://www.indjst.org/archive/vol.4.issue.3/mar11-pages159-265.pdf]] )
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Green House Effect: When sunlight reaches Earth's surface some is absorbed and warms the earth and most of the rest is radiated back to the atmosphere at a longer wavelength than the sun light. Some of these longer wavelengths are absorbed by greenhouse gases in the atmosphere before they are lost to space. The conversion of forests and grasslands into farmland and cities. All living plants store carbon. When those plants die and decay, carbon dioxide is released back into the atmosphere. As forests and grasslands are cleared for your use, enormous amounts of stored carbon enter the atmosphere. An unstoppable feedback loop may happen if you let this continue. If the activities mentioned above warm the Earth just enough, it could cause natural carbon sinks to fail. A "carbon sink" is a natural system that stores carbon over thousands of years. Such sinks include peat bogs and the arctic tundra. But if these sinks destabilize, that carbon will be released, possibly causing an unstoppable and catastrophic warming of the Earth. The oceans are no longer able to store carbon as they have in the past. The ocean is a huge carbon sink, holding about 50 times as much carbon as the atmosphere. But now scientists are realizing that the increased thermal stratification of the oceans has caused substantial reductions in levels of phytoplankton, which store CO2. Increased atmospheric carbon is also causing an acidification of the ocean, since carbon dioxide forms carbonic acid when it reacts with water. The tiny plants of the ocean, the very bottom of that vast watery food chain, are suffering from the effects of global warming, which means they are becoming less able to store carbon, further contributing to climate change. As carbon sinks fail, the amount of carbon in the atmosphere climbs! </span>


Warming causes extinction- tipping point
Dyer ‘12 (London-based independent journalist, PhD from King's College London, citing UC Berkeley scientists (Gwynne, "Tick, tock to mass extinction date," The Press, 6-19-12, l/n, accessed 8-15-12, mss)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Meanwhile, a team of respected scientists warn that life on Earth may be on the way to an irreversible "tipping point". Sure. Heard that one before, too. Last month one of the world's two leading scientific journals, Nature, published a paper, "Approaching a state shift in Earth's biosphere," pointing out that more than 40 per cent of the Earth's land is already used for human needs. With the human population set to grow by a further two billion by 2050, that figure could soon exceed 50 per cent. "It really will be a new world, biologically, at that point," said the paper's lead author, Professor Anthony Barnofsky of the University of California, Berkeley. But Barnofsky doesn't go into the details of what kind of new world it might be. Scientists hardly ever do in public, for fear of being seen as panic-mongers. Besides, it's a relatively new hypothesis, but it's a pretty convincing one, and it should be more widely understood. Here's how bad it could get. The scientific consensus is that we are still on track for 3 degrees C of warming by 2100, but that's just warming caused by human greenhouse- gas emissions. The problem is that +3 degrees is well past the point where the major feedbacks kick in: natural phenomena triggered by our warming, like melting permafrost and the loss of Arctic sea-ice cover, that will add to the heating and that we cannot turn off. The trigger is actually around 2C (3.5 degrees F) higher average global temperature. After that we lose control of the process: ending our own carbon- dioxide emissions would no longer be enough to stop the warming. We may end up trapped on an escalator heading up to +6C (+10.5F), with no way of getting off. And +6C gives you the mass extinction. There have been five mass extinctions in the past 500 million years, when 50 per cent or more of the species then existing on the Earth vanished, but until recently the only people taking any interest in this were paleontologists, not climate scientists. They did wonder what had caused the extinctions, but the best answer they could come up was "climate change". It wasn't a very good answer. Why would a warmer or colder planet kill off all those species? The warming was caused by massive volcanic eruptions dumping huge quantities of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere for tens of thousands of years. But it was very gradual and the animals and plants had plenty of time to migrate to climatic zones that still suited them. (That's exactly what happened more recently in the Ice Age, as the glaciers repeatedly covered whole continents and then retreated again.) There had to be a more convincing kill mechanism than that. The paleontologists found one when they discovered that a giant asteroid struck the planet 65 million years ago, just at the time when the dinosaurs died out in the most recent of the great extinctions. So they went looking for evidence of huge asteroid strikes at the time of the other extinction events. They found none. What they discovered was that there was indeed major warming at the time of all the other extinctions - and that the warming had radically changed the oceans. The currents that carry oxygen- rich cold water down to the depths shifted so that they were bringing down oxygen- poor warm water instead, and gradually the depths of the oceans became anoxic: the deep waters no longer had any oxygen. When that happens, the sulfur bacteria that normally live in the silt (because oxygen is poison to them) come out of hiding and begin to multiply. Eventually they rise all the way to the surface over the whole ocean, killing all the oxygen-breathing life. The ocean also starts emitting enormous amounts of lethal hydrogen sulfide gas that destroy the ozone layer and directly poison land- dwelling species. This has happened many times in the Earth's history.</span>



And healthy American forests maintain the carbon cycle
National Science, 98, “America's Amazing Carbon Sink”, [[http://naturalscience.com/ns/articles/comment/ns_com07.html]], ACC: 2.8.06, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">An article in the October 16, 1998 issue of Science (see also ABSNews.com report) by S. Fan and others presents evidence that North America's second-growth forests south of latitude 51 absorb 1.7 (SE = 0.5) billion tons of atmospheric carbon annually. This claim, which is based on a study of north-to-south and west-to-east atmospheric carbon dioxide concentration gradients, is in sharp conflict with estimates derived from measurements of forest production. According to the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations (2), forest production in the whole of North America (including the vast boreal forest, which lies north of latitude 51), is just under one billion cubic metres of harvestable stemwood per year. The FAO estimates North America's total timber harvest at just under 0.6 billion cubic metres of stemwood per year. Net accumulation of standing timber is thus estimated to be approximately 0.4 billion cubic metres per year, representing the accumulation of approximately 100 million tons of carbon. To this might be added up to 150 million tons of carbon contained in the 0.6 billion cubic metres of harvested timber on the optimistic assumption that all is converted to products which either have a life time comparable to that of a forest, or are indefinitely recycled without loss. An annual increment of one hundred million tons of carbon in harvestable timber implies an accumulation of approximately 150 million tons of carbon in whole-tree biomass (i.e., including leaves, branches and roots as well as harvestable stemwood). In addition, carbon accumulates in forest soils in the form of leaf and branch litter, dead stems and roots. The accumulation of soil organic matter can exceed that in living biomass by a factor of as much as two. Thus, based on the FAO data, one can estimate that North America's forests comprise a sink for, at most, 150 million tons each in living forest biomass and harvested wood products, plus 300 million tons in forest soil organic matter, for a total of 600 million tons annually. But this implies a North American carbon sink only one-third the size of that inferred in the Science paper. [IT CONTINUES…] Whatever the true magnitude of the North American forest carbon sink, the report by Fan et al. emphasizes the central role that forests play in regulating the composition of the atmosphere. If a massive North American forest carbon sink is confirmed, it will have major and, on the whole fortunate, implications; among them that timber, a vital industrial raw material, will be in abundant supply for the foreseeable future. North America alone could, if necessary, supply all of present world timber demand on a sustainable basis. Further, the result implies that the productivity of second-growth forests in North America is so large that there is no urgent economic justification for allowing further inroads into North America's remaining stands of old-growth timber until their role both as a carbon reservoir in the global carbon cycle and in the maintenance of biodiversity has been clarified.</span>

Unstable global carbon cycle results in planetary extinction
Connie Mutel, “Rebalancing the Carbon Cycle”, Fall 98 [[http://dwb.unl.edu/Teacher/NSF/C11/C11Links/www.cgrer.uiowa.edu/newsletters/fall1998/feature.html]], ACC: 2.8.06, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Carbon. From the time when the first living organisms coalesced in a sea permeated with long-chained molecules, this element has been essential to life on earth. Like water and oxygen, we cannot live without it. Carbon’s importance arises from its crucial provision of both structure and energy to living creatures. Carbon’s very long chains and rings are the backbones of most organic molecules. Break living bodies of any sort into organs, break the organs into cells, and the cells into molecules, look inside, and you will find a string of carbon atoms. If you could somehow pull all these carbon strings from the organism, little would remain of either the organism’s form or function. But carbon also flows through organisms and, when doing so, provides the energy that allows them to laugh, play, migrate, reproduce -- to perform virtually any function that we associate with being alive. This energy comes stored in the molecular bonds that hold the carbon chains together. Think about it. If you need an energy boost, you grab a CARBO-hydrate -- a food with quickly digested and readily available carbon compounds. Given the importance of long-chained carbon compounds, it was crucial that living creatures developed mechanisms for producing these complex molecules and assuring that they could be readily transferred from one organism to another. Hence the significance of the carbon cycle, which is diagrammed in a simplified form in [[http://dwb.unl.edu/Teacher/NSF/C11/C11Links/www.cgrer.uiowa.edu/newsletters/fall1998/#figure1|Figure 1]]. Through this cycle, carbon (in the form of carbon dioxide, or CO2) is pulled from the atmosphere by green plants, which engage the sun’s energy to form the long carbon chains (a process called photosynthesis). The carbon chains, and the energy they contain, are then handed from one creature to another as a series of meals -- from corn to pig to human, from grass to rabbit to decomposing fungi. Eventually, the molecules release their energy and break back down to emit CO2 (a process called respiration). The CO2 released into the atmosphere plays another crucial role. CO2, with other greenhouse gases, provides an insulating blanket that holds in the sun’s warmth and heats the earth’s surface to a temperature that is hospitable to life -- about 60°F warmer than it would be otherwise. The carbon cycle has remained roughly in balance through the eons, with carbon playing its multiple roles in a healthy and sustainable manner. But beginning about 200 years ago, the Industrial Revolution instigated a major shift in the amount of carbon stored in various forms. Society’s conversion from an agrarian to industrial state, along with its transfer of work from muscle power to machines, required cheap and abundant power sources. Complex carbon-based molecules -- stored as fossil fuels -- came to the rescue. Ever since, oil, coal, and natural gas have powered the production and transport of goods around the globe, fueling virtually every structure and activity that we associate with modern life. Unfortunately, the obvious benefits of these fuels come coupled with unavoidable problems. One of these problems derives from the source of fossil fuels, which were formed from plant remains buried millions of years ago. These fossil fuels are, in essence, buried treasures of energy-storing carbon chains. Burning the fuels releases not only energy, but also the CO2 that had long ago been sequestered in these buried plants. The results of our fossil fuel consumption have been significant. Researchers analyzing the content of tiny air bubbles trapped within Antarctic ice cores have discovered that during the last 160,000 years, atmospheric CO2 has waxed and waned, in general being lower during cold periods and higher during warm periods (see [[http://dwb.unl.edu/Teacher/NSF/C11/C11Links/www.cgrer.uiowa.edu/newsletters/fall1998/#figure2|Figure 2]].). However, because of the massive release of CO2 from fossil fuels, the rate of CO2 evolution has never been as high as it is today. In addition, the total amount of atmospheric CO2 has not approached current levels during the past 160,000 years. In the last 200 years, atmospheric CO2 has risen from 280 ppm to 360 ppm, with today’s growth curve skyrocketing upward. The United States releases about a quarter of the total annual CO2 generated, thus becoming by far the earth’s major CO2 producer. These skyrocketing CO2 levels have become a major concern because of their potential link to warming global temperatures. The earth’s temperatures have risen 1°F in the last 100 years. Climate models predict that a continued rise in greenhouse gases will warm the average earth temperature another 2 to 6.5°F in the coming 100 years, with the most probable estimate being 3.5°F. The warming would not be uniform; some areas would be hotter, some perhaps even cooler. Such a temperature rise would result in the flooding of coastal areas and islands, worsen droughts and rainstorms, and shift climatic and agricultural zones northward, in addition to causing other sig8nificant problems. [IT CONTINUES…] All complex carbon compounds are tiny storage vaults for the sun’s energy. We know now that those vaults can be opened to fuel a forest or our own bodies, our cars, our hospitals, and our factories. The trick is not how to do so -- it’s how to do so in a sustainable manner. It’s how to maintain the cycles so that carbon can continue to provide balanced services -- as a global temperature regulator as well as an energy source and structural building block for life on earth. CGRER’s research is directed toward further deciphering and better tending the intricacies of the carbon cycle so that the earth’s thin film of carbon-dependent life can continue to flourish.</span>


Independently, deforestation causes extinction
Linda Sauter, University of Washington Astrobiology Program, 4-17-06, “This Easter Island Earth”, [[http://www.astrobio.net/index.php?option=com_retrospection&task=detail&id=1930]], ACC: 4.8.12, p. online
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">From the perspective of Astrobiology, it is interesting to look at the causes for collapse in terms of the whole planet over the longest possible timescale. For ultimately, the Earth is Easter Island. Diamond breaks down the collapse factors into several categories. The first several factors include deforestation, habitat destruction, soil erosion and fertility loss, and freshwater loss and contamination. Trees seem to be an intrinsically renewable resource. But forest destruction, in conjunction with soil erosion and water loss, makes the loss of forest habitat an accelerating and potentially irreversible problem on this planet. Trees cannot grow back in places where the soil is lost, and soil regenerates at a much slower pace than that at which it is lost. Therefore, deforestation can be considered a global collapse factor for our modern civilization. The size and timescale of this factor is less certain, but could become critical within a century or two at current rates.</span>
===1ac – Crabs=== 
Lack of transportation infrastructure reduces visitation to National Parks
National Geographic 11 (“Top 10 Issues Facing National Parks”, [[http://travel.nationalgeographic.com/travel/top-10/national-parks-issues/]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">National parks are the destination of many a great American road trip. But too many roads within the parks themselves are in disrepair and some pose a real danger to drivers. The same goes for many parts of the parks’ transportation infrastructure, from shuttle buses to hiking trails. Repairs are always under way but it will take time and money to truly set things right. More than half of the Park Service’s $9.5 billion maintenance backlog is earmarked for the transportation infrastructure that enables people to actually visit the parks.</span>


Auto access and auto tourism are the key issues to the sustainability and survivability of national parks
Simmons 6 – Bob, spent more than four decades as a full-time broadcast and print journalist in Seattle (“How our wilderness changed after parks shifted into drive”, Special to The Seattle Times, 9-22-06, [[http://community.seattletimes.nwsource.com/archive/?date=20060922&slug=windshield24]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Without cars, there would be no national parks, Seattle writer David Louter makes clear in "Windshield Wilderness: Cars, Roads, and Nature in Washington's National Parks." Not only do auto tourists and their wishes dominate national park policies; they're the reason the parks have flourished. In the early days of our national parks, revered naturalists including John Muir promoted tourism in order to grow the political clout to save parklands from mining and logging. They didn't foresee a time when national parks, thanks to "their accommodations for auto tourists and motorized recreation," would lose their original purpose: "the preservation of the natural world in its primeval state." Louter, a National Park Service historian, describes the co-evolution of national parks and auto travel, as each has shaped and been shaped by the other. While the primary urge of early park visionaries was to preserve wild areas, the desire to preserve soon gave way to the desire to "present." Much of what was presented was "windshield wilderness," to be seen from a car or by walking 100 yards. (Or, in the case of a 1911 visitor — President William Howard Taft — to be seen from a car dragged over mud roads by a team of mules, allowing the president to rejoice in the scenery at Paradise, in Mount Rainier National Park.)</span>


Park income is key to maintaining biodiversity as well as research and protection of key plants and animals
Poelzl 10 (Volker, Environmentalist and expatriate, editor of Transitions Abroad, 2010, “Responsible Travel in Action: Helping to Preserve Endangered Species and Ecosystems”, [[http://www.transitionsabroad.com/listings/travel/responsible/articles/preservation-engangered-species-ecosystems.shtml]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Supporting efforts to save threatened wildlife and ecosystems is a small but important contribution to preserving the biodiversity on our planet. Many NGOs working to protect wildlife rely on endowments and donations for their operations, but visitors to wildlife parks also play an important role in helping to preserve endangered ecosystems. Their fees help protect the park boundaries, pay for research, and provide income to local communities. Supporting wildlife sanctuaries and preserves is especially important in developing countries, which often lack resources to adequately fund reserves and protect them against poaching, logging, illegal mining, and invasion by settlers.</span>


Specifically National Park Service resources are key to protection and education programs that save the Horseshoe Crab
Kornblum 02 – William, Professor of Human Ecology at the CUNY Graduate School (“Limulus, Resiliency, and Human Understanding”, IACERE (Inter-American Comparative Ecosystems and Regional Economies), “The Resilient Horseshoe Crab: Guardian of Time”, Co-Edited by Ronald G. Hellman and Janis A. Roze, Americas Center on Science and Society (ACSS): A 21st Century Global Ecosystem Observatory at City University Graduate Center, 7-22-02, [[http://web.gc.cuny.edu/sciart/0102/RHSC/page.htm]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Clearly the future of the horseshoe crab will depend urgently on our ability to increase human understanding of this and many related species which live tenuously among us. One could fall into despair about the prospects for achieving that understanding, but there are many reasons, in fact, to be hopeful. Perhaps one vignette from our own estuary will illustrate my reasons for guarded optimism. When Gateway National Recreation Area was created by Congress in 1972, the rangers and park biologists found horseshoe crabs throughout the shores and wetlands of Jamaica Bay. They also moved along the beaches of Staten Island, and Sandy Hook, which had all also been included into the new federal park at the mouth of the Port of New York. But in addition crabs and birds and wildlife that clung to diminishing habitats in our estuary, there were hundreds of abandoned autos that needed to be lifted from the wetlands, and these hulks were merely the most visible reminder that for generations we had completely misunderstood and, in consequence, misused and abused the precious wetlands at the city’s edge. One of the first and most important steps at Gateway, in the name of greater understanding of our wetlands and their non-human species, was initiated by Sam Holmes, an environmental educator with the Park Service and a mentor to many of us, including Dr. Tanacredi, who developed the knowledge base we now take pride in for Jamaica Bay. Sam Holmes’ worked with fierce determination in the early 1970s to develop a cooperative agreement with the New York Board of Education for environmental programs at Jamaica Bay. This program trained teachers and other adult mentors in the ecology of Jamaica Bay so that they, in turn could bring hundreds of thousands of school classes and adult education classes out to the bay to learn about its resilience and the limits we humans had imposed on that resilience. As a native New Yorker and a product of the public schools, I was somewhat jealous of the environmental education program Sam and his staff created. At mid-century, my school experience had included nothing about the natural world. When we learned biology it was a subject almost entirely devoted to the humans and their cells. We never had an opportunity to venture beyond the classroom to explore nature in vivo. Our experience with non-human species was limited study of the frog and particularly its innards. In consequence, when we roamed in small groups of children through our polluted wetlands, which we did with some frequency, we were almost completely ignorant of what we were actually seeing. We could not help but see horseshoe crabs at the water’s edge, but they seemed frightening to us. We traded myths and stupidities about them: they were said to have poisonous barbs at the end of their tails; and the tails, it was said, could easily penetrate a boy’s foot unless one was extremely careful when wading. And since we believed the crabs were dangerous, we naturally felt it was a good thing to kill them, and that we did with bloody abandon. Years later I watched Sam Holmes taking teachers and young students over the same marshes and bar beaches. First they pulled seine nets through the water and the amount of smaller sea life their nets revealed was almost beyond belief, to children and adults alike. There were brine shrimp, sea horses, and killies galore, and that was only the beginning. Each of these species had a relationship of mutuality and symbiosis to all the others, which Sam and his staff patiently revealed. And always the climax of the lesson was the appearance of the slow-moving Limulus. At first the children were horrified by the strange shape, but with some explanation of its evolutionary history, and some debunking of myths, those gathered gained a far better understanding of why this heroic species, older than the dinosaurs themselves, was to be admired and not abused or killed. Sam Holmes, John Tanacredi, the Stoutenburghs, and all the environmental educators I know are still fighting an uphill battle. But we can see the results of their labors on the shores of Jamaica Bay, in children explaining to their own parents that Limulus is not dangerous and deserves to be allowed to exist in a restored estuarine habitat. And so I am deeply flattered to be included in this celebration of Limulus and the beauty it inspired in Brian Nissen sculpture.</span>


Protection of National Parks are vital to preservation of Horseshoe Crabs in the Delaware Bay
Tanacredi 02 – John T., Professor of Biology and Associate Director, AREAC, (“Limulus in the Limelight”, IACERE (Inter-American Comparative Ecosystems and Regional Economies), “The Resilient Horseshoe Crab: Guardian of Time”, Co-Edited by Ronald G. Hellman and Janis A. Roze, Americas Center on Science and Society (ACSS): A 21st Century Global Ecosystem Observatory at City University Graduate Center, 7-22-02, [[http://web.gc.cuny.edu/sciart/0102/RHSC/page.htm]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">I want to first re-emphasize statements made in the opening remarks by Paul Stoutenburgh. He was introduced to Limulus by his father taking the young Paul on a fishing trip to the Long Island shore, and from that day on, he was captivated and in awe of this amazing creature. It reminded me of my first experience with Limulus as a young volunteer docent at the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, Brooklyn, New York. And I believe strongly that it is the educative link, the hands-on embrace of youth with science that was instrumental in igniting my passion for marine science and science in general. Some 45 years later, I still am captivated and excited by observing these creatures in the laboratory or in the marshes of Jamaica Bay or Delaware Bay during their peak congregation. These creatures are also the perfect species to work with from a family educational standpoint. They are ‘strange looking’ so curiosity runs deep in the young mind; they are harmless so there is no danger to the youngster handling them probing their intricacies; they can be captively bred and therefore observed in the line of transitions (molts) they make to maturity. I should note that only two laboratories in the United States are captively breeding Limulus polyphemus; one which is at the AREAC (Aquatic Research and Environmental Assessment Center) facility at Brooklyn college, CUNY. However, every coastline space from April through July (the range of time we can see Horseshoe Crabs on the shores of Long Island) is a “laboratory” for learning about this timeless creature. Thus, the ever greater significance to the preservation of thousands of miles of Delaware Bay by designating the area a “no-take’ zone for horseshoe crabs, and the “no take” policy of the National Park Service for these organisms within the boundaries of the Park at Gateway National Recreation Area.</span>

Failure to protect horseshoe crabs in the Delaware Bay could cause their extinction
Home News Tribune, 2-23-03, p. L/N
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Each spring, hundreds of thousands of shorebirds descend upon Delaware Bay to fatten up on the eggs of the horseshoe crab before they make the final leg of their migratory journey to breeding grounds in the Arctic. Despite tightened regulations on the harvesting of horseshoe crabs for bait, however, the grand spectacle is endangered. One species at the center of it all may even be headed for extinction in New Jersey. The horseshoe crab is a vital resource not only environmentally but economically and medically as well. Ecotourism is estimated to be a $34 million business in New Jersey each year, and much of it is centered in the Cape May area, the premier staging ground for the spring layover of shorebirds. For humans, a derivative of horseshoe crab blood is used to detect toxins in injectable drugs, and no alternative exists. Without question, the horseshoe crab's demise is a catastrophe in the making both for nature and man. Reduced catches and partial moratoriums on the harvesting of horseshoe crabs were tried in the 1990s but have failed to reverse declines in the 350-million-year-old species. Scientists estimate the number of horseshoe crabs has plummeted by 75 percent in a little more than a decade, according to Eric Stiles, vice president for conservation and stewardship at the New Jersey Audubon Society. Further, Stiles says the crabs are being taken "at a rate four times greater than they can sustain." One of the reasons is the crabs need eight to nine years before they are able to lay eggs. The effects of overfishing in the early '90s are reaching their crushing conclusion now. For shorebirds dependent upon the crabs' eggs, the repercussions are dire. Numbers of Red Knots, for example, have plummeted. Surveys in southern Chile showed the hemispheric population of Red Knots had declined by an estimated 13,000 in 2001, and Stiles notes researchers predict Red Knots migrating through New Jersey will be extirpated in another seven years. Key to restoring horseshoe crabs and shorebirds to sustainable numbers is an end to harvesting of the crabs, at least for now, enabling their stocks to recover. Commercial fisherman harvest horseshoe crabs for use in baited traps to catch eel and whelk, a marine snail also call conch. But other baits can be used. In New Jersey, an annual quota limits about 33 licensed crabbers to taking a total of 297,680 crabs a year. The fishery is only a $134,000 industry in New Jersey; $182,000 in Delaware - far short of the multimillion-dollar economic bubble ecotourism brings the state every year. It's clear which industry is most important to most people. No one wants to put anyone out of business - and the crabbers are often small, family-run operations - but if New Jersey and neighboring states fail to act, one day soon there may be no horseshoe crabs left for either fishermen or birds.</span>


Horseshoe Crabs are keystone species in the Delaware Bay and to bird species
Wolf and Correll 12 – Janey and Philip, New Jersey Coastal Heritage Trail,
National Park Service (“The Horseshoe Crab as a Keystone Species”, Down Jersey, July 2012,
[[http://www.cumauriceriver.org/downjersey/natural/images/Natural13.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">A keystone species is a species on which the survival of a number of other species depends. The term comes from the concept of a keystone used in construction. A keystone is placed at the top of an arch. It supports the other stones or bricks in the arch and prevents the entire arch from collapsing. If the keystone is removed, the arch cannot maintain its shape and will fall to the ground. The same is true in nature. If a keystone species becomes extinct from an environment or ecosystem, the species supported will disappear as will other species that are dependent. These keystone species can occur at any level in the ecosystem. They can be plants or herbivores (plant eaters), carnivores (meat eaters), or detrivores (waste eaters). Carnivores may be important in keeping the populations of other species under control. Herbivores can shape the environment in which other species live. Some important plants support particular insect species that are prey for the birds and bats that disperse the seeds of plants and other organisms.¶ The Horseshoe Crab and the Delaware Bay¶ The horseshoe crab (Limulus polyphemus) is not a crab at all, but is more closely related to spiders and scorpions. It has changed little in over 300 million years, and the Delaware Bay is home to the largest population of spawning horseshoe crabs in the world. Each spring the warming waters bring the crabs from the Delaware Bay and Atlantic Ocean to the coastlines of New Jersey and Delaware. In late spring, at the high tides of the full and new moons, female crabs come ashore to lay their eggs, depositing up to 20,000 small eggs in shallow nests in the sand. What makes this odd prehistoric creature a keystone species? At the same time the horseshoe crabs are laying their eggs, nearly a million shorebirds converge on the Delaware Bay each spring on their northward migration. The Bay is the second largest feeding stopover in the western hemisphere for northbound shorebirds. Many of these shorebirds travel thousand s of miles nonstop from Central and South America. They arrive thin and hungry and rely on the feast of tiny green horseshoe crab eggs to regain their weight and energy reserves for the rest of their trip to summer nesting grounds in Canada and the Arctic. As many as 30 species of shorebirds cram the shoreline in late May trying to double their body weights. The four most common species are the red knot, sanderling, ruddy turnstone , and semipalmated sandpiper, and they account for as much as 97 percent of the shorebirds that stop over in the Delaware Bay. It has been estimated that a sanderling bird weighing 50 grams on arrival will eat one horseshoe crab egg every five seconds for 14 hours per day. Clearly, if the horseshoe crab were not there to provide the eggs that are a major food source for these migrating bird species, there would be a major effect on the number of birds migrating and their ability to survive. Since these birds come from such great distances, anything that affects the population and habitat of the horseshoe crabs in the Delaware Bay has implications for these other species thousands of miles away.</span>


Keystone species are key to biodiversity which prevents extinction – this is a linear impact – err on the side of caution if the aff is even a little better than the status quo
Young 10 – Ruth, PhD Coastal Marine Ecology (“Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, 2-9-10, [[http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Different species within ecosystems fill particular roles, they all have a function, they all have a niche. They interact with each other and the physical environment to provide ecosystem services that are vital for our survival. For example plant species convert carbon dioxide (CO2) from the atmosphere and energy from the sun into useful things such as food, medicines and timber. Pollination carried out by insects such as bees enables the production of ⅓ of our food crops. Diverse mangrove and coral reef ecosystems provide a wide variety of habitats that are essential for many fishery species. To make it simpler for economists to comprehend the magnitude of services offered by biodiversity, a team of researchers estimated their value – it amounted to $US33 trillion per year. “By protecting biodiversity we maintain ecosystem services” Certain species play a “keystone” role in maintaining ecosystem services. Similar to the removal of a keystone from an arch, the removal of these species can result in the collapse of an ecosystem and the subsequent removal of ecosystem services. The most well known example of this occurred during the 19th century when sea otters were almost hunted to extinction by fur traders along the west coast of the USA. This led to a population explosion in the sea otters’ main source of prey, sea urchins. Because the urchins graze on kelp their booming population decimated the underwater kelp forests. This loss of habitat led to declines in local fish populations. Eventually a treaty protecting sea otters allowed the numbers of otters to increase which in turn controlled the urchin population, leading to the recovery of the kelp forests and fish stocks. In other cases, ecosystem services are maintained by entire functional groups, such as apex predators (See Jeremy Hance’s post at Mongabay). During the last 35 years, over fishing of large shark species along the US Atlantic coast has led to a population explosion of skates and rays. These skates and rays eat bay scallops and their out of control population has led to the closure of a century long scallop fishery. These are just two examples demonstrating how biodiversity can maintain the services that ecosystems provide for us, such as fisheries. One could argue that to maintain ecosystem services we don’t need to protect biodiversity but rather, we only need to protect the species and functional groups that fill the keystone roles. However, there are a couple of problems with this idea. First of all, for most ecosystems we don’t know which species are the keystones! Ecosystems are so complex that we are still discovering which species play vital roles in maintaining them. In some cases its groups of species not just one species that are vital for the ecosystem. Second, even if we did complete the enormous task of identifying and protecting all keystone species, what back-up plan would we have if an unforseen event (e.g. pollution or disease) led to the demise of these ‘keystone’ species? Would there be another species to save the day and take over this role? Classifying some species as ‘keystone’ implies that the others are not important. This may lead to the non-keystone species being considered ecologically worthless and subsequently over-exploited. Sometimes we may not even know which species are likely to fill the keystone roles. An example of this was discovered on Australia’s Great Barrier Reef. This research examined what would happen to a coral reef if it were over-fished. The “over-fishing” was simulated by fencing off coral bommies thereby excluding and removing fish from them for three years. By the end of the experiment, the reefs had changed from a coral to an algae dominated ecosystem – the coral became overgrown with algae. When the time came to remove the fences the researchers expected herbivorous species of fish like the parrot fish (Scarus spp.) to eat the algae and enable the reef to switch back to a coral dominated ecosystem. But, surprisingly, the shift back to coral was driven by a supposed ‘unimportant’ species – the bat fish (Platax pinnatus). The bat fish was previously thought to feed on invertebrates – small crabs and shrimp, but when offered a big patch of algae it turned into a hungry herbivore – a cow of the sea – grazing the algae in no time. So a fish previously thought to be ‘unimportant’ is actually a keystone species in the recovery of coral reefs overgrown by algae! Who knows how many other species are out there with unknown ecosystem roles! In some cases it’s easy to see who the keystone species are but in many ecosystems seemingly unimportant or redundant species are also capable of changing niches and maintaining ecosystems. The more biodiverse an ecosystem is, the more likely these species will be present and the more resilient an ecosystem is to future impacts. Presently we’re only scratching the surface of understanding the full importance of biodiversity and how it helps maintain ecosystem function. The scope of this task is immense. In the meantime, a wise insurance policy for maintaining ecosystem services would be to conserve biodiversity. In doing so, we increase the chance of maintaining our ecosystem services in the event of future impacts such as disease, invasive species and of course, climate change. This is the international year of biodiversity – a time to recognize that biodiversity makes our survival on this planet possible and that our protection of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>


Horseshoe Crabs create LAL, a vital test for pharmaceutical vaccines that prevent pandemics and fight cancer
Mattei and Beekey 08 – Jennifer, Associate Professor & Director of the Professional Science Master’s Program in Environmental Systems Analysis & Management @ Sacred Heart University and Mark, Assistant Professor of Biology @ Sacred Heart University ("The Horseshoe Crab Conundrum: Can We Harvest and Conserve?" Biology Faculty Publications, [[http://digitalcommons.sacredheart.edu/bio_fac/5]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Not many people think of horseshoe crabs (Limulus polyphemus) while at the doctor’s office but they should! These remarkable ‘living fossils’ have unique blood cells (amebocytes) that are used to test human vaccines for bacterial contamination. In the 1950’s, scientists at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Massachusetts, not only discovered amebocytes but also found that they had special properties. If the amebocytes came into contact with bacteria, they would instantly coagulate around the bacteria and attack it. The Woods Hole scientists took this unique property of horseshoe crabs and developed a test for bacterial contamination using a horseshoe crab blood derivative called Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL). Today, federal law requires any medical device or product that will be inserted or injected into a human body be tested for bacterial contamination using Limulus Amebocyte Lysate (LAL). For example, each year pharmaceutical companies produce new Flu vaccines and test them for bacterial contamination with LAL. If a batch is found to be contaminated, then it is thrown out. This test ensures that those people receiving their annual flu vaccine do not become ill from a tainted vaccine batch. Even the family dog is protected by horseshoe crab blood, as the LAL test is also required for veterinary practices, to avoid contaminated rabies vaccines. Remarkably, NASA has taken horseshoe crab blood into outer space to help keep our astronauts healthy. If an astronaut comes down with a sore throat they can swab their throat and use their LAL test kit to see if it is a bacterial or viral infection. A positive test result informs the astronaut to take antibiotics. Further research is currently being conducted on the unique properties of horseshoe crab blood. There exists a real possibility of finding anti-cancer products that could benefit human health in the future.</span>

Pandemic diseases risk extinction
Darling and Shultz-Makuch 12 – David, Astronomer and Dirk, Astrobiologist (“9 strange ways the world really might end”, The Seattle Post Intelligencer, [[http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Our body is in constant competition with a dizzying array of viruses, bacteria, and parasites, many of which treat us simply as a source of food or a vehicle for reproduction. What’s troubling is that these microbes can mutate and evolve at fantastic speed – the more so thanks to the burgeoning human population – confronting our bodies with new dangers every year. HIV, Ebola, bird flu, and antibiotic-resistant “super bugs” are just a few of the pathogenic threats to humanity that have surfaced over the past few decades. Our soaring numbers, ubiquitous international travel, and the increasing use of chemicals and biological agents without full knowledge of their consequences, have increased the risk of unstoppable pandemics arising from mutant viruses and their ilk. Bubonic plague, the Black Death, and the Spanish Flu are vivid examples from history of how microbial agents can decimate populations. But the consequences aren’t limited to a high body count. When the death toll gets high enough, it can disrupt the very fabric of society. According to U.S. government studies, if a global pandemic affecting at least half the world’s population were to strike today, health professionals wouldn’t be able to cope with the vast numbers of sick and succumbing people. The result of so many deaths would have serious implications for the infrastructure, food supply, and security of 21st century man. While an untreatable pandemic could strike suddenly and potentially bring civilization to its knees in weeks or months, degenerative diseases might do so over longer periods. The most common degenerative disease is cancer. Every second men and every third women in the western world will be diagnosed with this disease in their lifetime. Degeneration of our environment through the release of toxins and wastes, air pollution, and intake of unhealthy foods is making this problem worse. If cancer, or some other form of degenerative disease, were to become even more commonplace and strike before reproduction, or become infectious (as seen in the transmitted facial cancer of the Tasmanian Devil, a carnivorous marsupial in Australia) the very survival of our species could be threatened.</span>


Independently bioterror is inevitable – new antibacterial drugs are vital to prevent their spread
Hickey 12 – Walter, Business Insider Columnist (“DARPA Is Just As Worried About A Bioterror Attack As The Pentagon”, Business Insider, 5-31-12, [[http://www.businessinsider.com/darpa-puts-out-a-call-for-plasmid-bioweapon-response-research-2012-5#ixzz2OwSTx1ne|http://www.businessinsider.com/darpa-puts-out-a-call-for-plasmid-bioweapon-response-research-2012-5#ixzz2OwSTx1ne]])
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">This morning, the day after the Department of Defense's number two man referred to bioterror as an inevitable threat against the United States civilian and military populations, DARPA tweeted a call for a method to disarm certain kinds of bioweapons. The solicitation — put out alongside requests for advanced magnetic imaging studies, laser research, satellite identification signature development, and first-responder training systems — seeks research into methods that can be used to combat antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Yesterday, Deputy Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter said that the DoD was extremely concerned about the impact of a future bioweapon attack domestically or on the battlefield. This request from DARPA shows that the military is seeking every available research option to deal with that eventuality. The proposal cites, in addition to general bacterial resistance, the threat of "purposely engineered antibiotic resistant microbes" as a key reason for the call. The desired research would result in the creation of an artificial plasmid — a chunk of DNA that can be used to change the DNA found naturally in organisms — which would displace other plasmids that make bacteria resistant to treatment. Essentially, DARPA wants something that can be used to render antibiotic-resistant germs treatable. One of the most threatening aspects of germ warfare involve bacteria that have been weaponized to the point that they are untreatable with existing antibiotics. DARPA wants a way to render those infections treatable. DARPA admits that this strategy is "high risk," likely due to the inherent struggles in controlling and understanding the effects of artificial DNA. Still, they justify the risk with the observation that the research is necessary in light of increased antibiotic resistance. In the solicitation, DARPA specifically notes that they want plasmids designed to counter "a range of human pathogens of interest to the DoD," but the civilian implications of that research are incredible too. With the widespread use and abuse of antibiotics, infections are becoming increasingly resilient across the board, and any way to render the germs vulnerable again would have immense medical use for the general public. </span>

Horseshoe crabs can be used for medicine that resolve the impacts to bioterror
The Chronicle of Higher Education, 11-8-02, p. L/N
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Your life may depend on horseshoe crabs. The distant relatives of spiders have trolled the seafloor for more than 300 million years. But 25 years ago, they figured in a key discovery of marine biology: Proteins in their blood cause clotting in the presence of common bacteria that cause illnesses, including meningitis, E. coli poisoning, and Legionnaire's disease. Their blood, therefore, can form a sensitive detection system, the so-called "lysate test," for checking drugs, syringes, or any medical material that comes into contact with human blood. Now the creatures are suffering the predations of a new, international industry, writes William Sargent, a former researcher at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, in Crab Wars: A Tale of Horseshoe Crabs, Bioterrorism, and Human Health (University Press of New England). Q. Why can't scientists just create a synthetic version of the clotting factor? A.It would cost about $100-million to do the research, if you found the gene that produced the protein that you wanted, and actually it'd be a number of genes. But nature has already given us a wonderful system where the crabs produce the lysate themselves. You collect the animals when they come in in the spring, bleed them, and hold them and then bleed them again, and then release them back into the wild in the fall. It's almost a form of ocean ranching. Q. Is this a case of no one group -- drug companies or fisherman -- being too greedy, but of too much demand over all? A. Exactly. All of a sudden you have two or three users concentrating on one species, and things get out of hand. In the lysate industry, the impact on them is not so much that the crabs are being killed outright while they're being bled -- there's only about a 10-percent mortality. But they're being collected so intensely from specific areas. Q. How might they be responsibly exploited? A. I would like to see them used only for biomedical purposes. South Carolina has done this. That kind of regulation is not much of a hardship on fishermen. If you keep them alive and use them only for lysate, they're worth about $2,500 over the lifetime of the animal. But if you chop them up and use them for bait, you get only about 75 cents for that one-time use. Q. What's the future of the horseshoe crab? A. We're already seeing a coastwide decline, and that will continue and become quite severe. That would affect the lysate industry, which would in turn affect the pharmaceutical industry. Q. Right when we're entering a new era of biological warfare? A. Right. All the vaccines that we're readying now to fight bioterrorism have to be tested [with the lysate test].</span>

Bioterrorism risks extinction and is comparatively worse than any other WMD
Kellman 08 – Barry, Director of the International Weapons Control Center at the DePaul University College of Law (“Bioviolence: A Growing Threat,” The Futurist, May-June 2008, [[http://www.wfs.org/March-April09/MJ2008_Kellman.pdf]])
What Might Bioviolence Accomplish?
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Envision a series of attacks against capitals of developing states that have close diplomatic linkages with the United States. The attacks would carry a well-publicized yet simple warning: “If you are a friend of the United States, receive its officials, or support its policies, thousands of your people will get sick.” How many attacks in how many cities would it take before international diplomacy, to say nothing of international transit, comes to a crashing halt? In comparison to use of conventional or chemical weapons, the potential death toll of a bioattack could be huge. Although the number of victims would depend on where an attack takes place, the type of pathogen, and the sophistication of the weapons maker, there is widespread consensus among experts that a heightened attack would inflict casualties exceedable only by nuclear weapons. In comparison to nuclear weapons, bioweapons are far easier and cheaper to make and transport, and they can be made in facilities that are far more difficult to detect. The truly unique characteristic of certain bioweapons that distinguishes them from every other type of weapon is contagion. No other type of weapon can replicate itself and spread. Any other type of attack, no matter how severe, occurs at a certain moment in time at an identifiable place. If you aren’t there, you are angry and upset but not physically injured by the attack. An attack with a contagious agent can uniquely spread, potentially imperiling target populations far from where the agents are released. A bio-offender could infect his minions with a disease and send them across borders before symptoms are obvious. Carriers will then spread it to other unsuspecting victims who would themselves become extended bioweapons, carrying the disease indiscriminately. There are challenges in executing such an attack, but fanatical terrorist organizations seem to have an endless supply of willing suicide attackers. All this leads to the most important characteristic of bioviolence: It raises incomparable levels of panic. Contagious bioviolence means that planes fly empty or perhaps don’t fly at all. People cancel vacation and travel plans and refuse to interact with each other for fear of unseen affliction. Public entertainment events are canceled; even going to a movie becomes too dangerous. Ultimately, bioviolence is about hiding our children as everyone becomes vulnerable to our most fundamental terror: the fear of disease. For people who seek to rattle the pillars of modern civilization and perhaps cause it to collapse, effective use of disease would set in motion political, economic, and health consequences so severe as to call into question the ability of existing governments to maintain their citizens’ security. In an attack’s wake, no one would know when it is over, and no government could credibly tell an anxious population where and when it is safe to resume normal life. While it is difficult to specify when this danger will strike, there should be no doubt that we are vulnerable to a rupture. Just as planes flying into the Twin Towers on September 11, 2001, instantly became a historical marker dividing strategic perspectives before from after, the day that disease is effectively used as an instrument of hate will profoundly change everything. If you want to stop modern civilization in its tracks, bioviolence is the way to go. The notion that no one will ever commit catastrophic bioviolence is simply untenable.</span>
===1ac – Solvency=== 
Federal funding to improve transportation infrastructure in our National Parks keep parks open and park visitation high
NPCA 12 (“On the Road to Ruin: Reauthorization of the Transportation Bill Should Address National Park Needs”, 7-23-12, [[http://www.npca.org/news/media-center/fact-sheets/on-the-road-to-ruin.html]])
Pay (a little) Now or Pay (a lot) Later: The deterioration of roads and bridges in our national parks is largely due to a lack of funding for regular maintenance. The Park Roads and Parkways program will pay for rehabilitation and reconstruction, but not for regular maintenance, so the fiscally-flawed incentive is to skip inexpensive regular maintenance and wait for the facilities to deteriorate to the point where they need expensive major work that will be funded by the Park Roads and Parkways program. Unlike states and localities, the Park Service does not possess independent taxing authority. It is, therefore, incapable of generating sufficient revenues to adequately maintain transportation facilities constructed under the Park Roads and Parkways program. This flawed part of the law needs to change.¶ Not a High Enough Priority: The High Priority Projects program in the federal surface transportation legislation could be an important source of funding for transportation projects in national parks and other public lands. However, the 80/20 cost-share requirement poses a virtually insurmountable obstacle to advance these projects as there are no non-federal partners on federal lands to provide the necessary non-federal match. Hundreds of communities across the country benefit from the tourism generated by our national parks. Good roads are needed to bring in visitors. To advance High Priority Projects for public lands, funding should be at 100% federal as similar projects are funded in the Federal Lands Highways Program.¶ Running on Empty: In addition to roads and trails, 81 parks offer transit systems such as shuttle buses and ferries. These systems, such as the Island Explorer at Maine’s Acadia National Park, are very popular and have improved both traffic congestion and visitor enjoyment of our national parks. SAFETEA-LU established the Paul S. Sarbanes Transit in Parks Program and made available a total of $72 million over five years to all public land agencies for the development of alternative modes of transportation such as shuttles, ferries, and bike and pedestrian trails. While the Park Service and its outside partners have been fortunate to receive approximately $35 million during the first three years of the Transit in Parks Program, it is far less than the $60 million the Park Service estimates it needs every year. Moreover, the program funds individual projects on an annual basis only and does not allow for a multi-year, comprehensive program approach toward meeting the transit needs in our national parks. It also does not provide critical funding for operations, thus forcing the national parks to borrow funds from other programs to keep the popular transit systems running.¶ The Road Ahead: Poorly-maintained transportation facilities in our national parks are not only a safety hazard to park visitors, they can also adversely affect local communities and their economies that depend upon the parks being accessible and park transportation facilities being in good condition. Without a very substantial increase in funding and an expansion in eligible expenditures for annual road maintenance and transit operations, the persistent decline in the condition of transportation systems in our national parks will surely continue.



=Round 7= 
Neg vs. BCC BG (Wilderson)

===Strategy=== 
Framework (2NC/R)
K of claiming individuals could be "Socially Alive"
Case turns w/ Wilderson indicts (1NR)
so I am assuming that no one needs FW cards, so I'll post the K/Case turns since they are less commonly read 

===K 1NC=== 
Their reliance on corporeality and bodily materiality is metaphysical and re-creates a self-enclosed, self-present identity
Peterson ‘7
(Christopher, Lecturer @ University of Western Sidney, Kindred Specters: Death, Mourning, and American Affinity, pgs. 5-6)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Building on Patterson's argument, Toni Morrison observes in Playing in the Dark that, "for a people who made much of their 'newness' - their potential, freedom, and innocence - it is striking how dour, how troubled, how frightened and haunted our early and founding literature truly is." For Morrison, African-American slaves came to shoulder the burden of the darkness (both moral and racial) against which America defined itself. The shadow of a racialized blackness did not so much threaten the ostensible "newness" of American life as it conditioned the latter's appearance as new and free. Hence "freedom," she writes, "has no meaning ... without the specter of enslavement" (56). Echoing Morrison, Russ Castronovo asserts in Necro Citizenship that nineteenth-century American politics constructed the citizen in relation to a morbid fascination with ghosts, seances, spirit rappings, and mesmerism. Taking his point of departure from Patrick Henry's in-famous assertion, "give me liberty or give me death," Castronovo explores how admission into the domain of citizenship required a certain depoliticization and pacification of the subject: "The afterlife emancipates souls from passionate debates, everyday engagements, and earthly affairs that animate the political field."!' From Lincoln's rumored dabbling in spiritualism, to attempts by mediums to contact the departed souls of famous Americans, to a senator's introduction of a petition in 1854 asking Congress to investigate communications with the "other side" so numerous are Castronovo's examples of what he calls" spectral politics" that we would have a difficult time contesting his diagnosis that nineteenth-century American political discourse worked to produce politically and historically dead citizens. That these citizens were constructed in tandem with the production of large slave populations- noncitizens who were urged by slavery proponents and abolitionists alike to believe that emancipation existed in a promised afterlife - would lend still more credence to the argument that nineteenth-century America propagated a dematerialized politics. One wonders, however, how Castronovo's argument sits in relation to Aries's contention that American life tends toward an interdiction of death, and if Castronovo's rejection of necropolitics, moreover, is not finally symptomatic of this very disavowal. Castronovo maintains that, "for cultures that fear death ... necrophilia promotes fascination with and helps tame an unknowable terror:' (5). American necrophilia, according to Castronovo, responds to an overwhelming fear and denial of death. Castronovo thus aims 'to turn us away from such preoccupation with ghosts, spirits, and the afterlife toward "specific forms of corporeality," such as the laboring body, the slave body, and the mesmerized body, in order to avoid "reinscrib[ing] patterns of abstraction" (17). Yet, this move away from general to specific forms of embodiment still retains the notion of "the body," and therefore of a self-contained, sell-present entity. If nineteenth-century politics required that the citizen be disembodied and dematerialized, it does not follow that a move toward embodiment remedies such a spiritualized politics. Although Castronovo cautions that recourse to the body" does not automatically guarantee resistance," the overall tenor of his project pathologizes the spectral (18). Indeed, one has the sense that Castronovo would like to untether politics from death altogether - as if political life is not always haunted by finitude. Reversing the terms of political necrophilia, he offers something like a political necrophobia that sees every intrusion of the spectral as synonymous with depoliticization. If nineteenth-century spiritualism infused American political life with a familiar set of distinctions between spirit/matter, soul/body, that says nothing about how these binaries might be displaced rather than merely reversed.</span>

Their metaphysics re-produces American exceptionalism by conceding the possibility of socially alive, self-present identity- turns the case
Peterson ‘7
(Christopher, Lecturer @ University of Western Sidney, Kindred Specters: Death, Mourning, and American Affinity, pgs. 7-8)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">That Americanist literary criticism on the subject of mortality remains implicated in the larger cultural disavowal of dying suggests that we ought to reassess our critical energies, particularly as these powers are enlisted to address how American political ideology produces the "death" of racial and sexual others. Indeed, I would argue that such criticism remains invested - despite all claims to the contrary - in an American exceptionalist project. American exceptionalism names, in part, a fetishization of novelty and futurity that initially defined America against an ostensibly decaying and moribund Europe. As David Noble has argued, the doctrine of exceptionalism excluded America from "the human experience of birth, death, and rebirth" by figuring Europe in terms of time and America in terms of timeless space." If, as George Berkeley put it, America is "time's noblest offspring," history gives birth to its final progeny in order that the latter might escape time altogether. America thus becomes eternally present while "Europe breeds in her decay." If the "new world" qua new must deny mortality, then reanimating the excluded from within the terms of a dialectical reversal renews rather than dismantles the American exceptionalist project. Challenging the ideology of American exceptionalism is particularly crucial for a post-9/11 politics that aims to resist the transformation of American exposure to injury and death into a newly reconsolidated sense of innocence and immortality. As Donald Pease has argued, 9/11 transformed "virgin land" into "ground zero," effecting an ideological shift from a "secured innocent nation to a wounded, insecure emergency state."16 Drawing from the work of Giorgio Agamben. Pease describes the emergency state as a nation that - by exempting itself from its own democratic rules of free speech, due process, and above all, the rules of war - marks a division between those whom the state protects from injury and those whom the state is free to injure and kill with impunity (13). The reduction of the Arab other to that which cannot be killed because it is already dead works to cover over the wound that ground zero opens up under the surface of virgin land. The emergency state (or what Agamben calls the "state of exception") thus also names a nation that attempts to except itself from the universal condition of mortality. As Bauman notes, "if mortality and transience are the norm among humans, durability may be attained only as an exception" (67, his emphasis).</span>

Their claim that blackness is a site of absolute dereliction at the level of the real overparticularizes death and grants excessive power to whiteness- only double ghostedness produces effective politics and analysis of violence
Peterson ‘7
(Christopher, Lecturer @ University of Western Sidney, Kindred Specters: Death, Mourning, and American Affinity, pgs. 12-14)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">What I am calling redoubled ghostliness situates racial and sexual minorities in intimate contact with death. This heightened proximity to mortality is not only social, moreover, but material. As Karla Holloway observes in Passed On: African-American Mourning Stories, black Americans historically have had a "particular vulnerability to an untimely death," from lynching to suicides, from police violence to disease." Echoing Holloway, Abdul JanMohamed argues that African Americans are "death-bound-subject[s] ... formed, from infancy on, by the imminent and ubiquitous threat of death." Tracing the emergence of this subject in Richard Wright's fiction, JanMohamed argues that slaves, and by extension, "emancipated" black Americans, live under a constantly commuted death sentence. Drawing from Heidegger's account of death in Being and Time, JanMohamed notes that, "if natural death marks the termination of life and, thereby, retroactively defines the entirety of life, then this is even more so the case for the slave because he faces the imminent presence of death on a mundane basis" (284). Jan Mohamed is certainly right that Heidegger's account of death does not provide a detailed account of death's unequal social and historical distribution. Yet, in "correcting" this elision, JanMohamed reduces death to its political deployment. He writes: The existential description of death tends to be radically agnostic about the source or agency of death .... For the slave, death is not an eventuality that somehow "comes" or "arrives" in the natural course of events ... but rather something deliberately brought and imposed on him by another, by the master. (15) The problem with this formulation, however, is that it figures death as originally exterior to the slave,¶ coming to inhabit him only via the master's monopolistic violence. As Bauman astutely observes with regard to the modern interdiction of mortality, "we do not hear of people dying of mortality. They die only of individual causes, they die because there was an individual cause (138, his emphasis). Hence, we ought to say that the slave's availability to death is first conditioned by his "having" a body, which means that death is both what "comes" or "arrives" and is what the master wields as a form of coercive control." If finitude were "always embodied in the agency of the master," then death would name a condition unique to the slave as such (294). Indeed, by insisting on a radical disjunction between the death that haunts all life and the historical particularity of the immanent death to which African Americans are uniquely bound, JanMohamed reinscribes the exceptionalist logic through which the master evades death by projecting it onto the slave. In short, JanMohamed's analysis overparticularizes death, thereby reproducing the "state of exception" that he seeks to avoid. According to this logic, the master presides over the slave's life and death all the while exempting himself from the death that he deploys." While JanMohamed contends that the slave, unlike the master, "has always already been condemned to death ill the present," this presumes that the master's ontology is not also always already put into question by the spectrality that disturbs each and every present (282). Death is not a "final punctuation mark that retroactively defines" the "syntax" of one's life (298). On the contrary, death stretches along the syntax of each and every life according to incommensurate social and political grammars. To speak of the redoubled ghostliness of racial and sexual minorities, then, is not to subsume the particularity of social death under a universal being-toward-death that effaces political and social distinctions. Unlike what has often been said of death, spectrality is not the great equalizer. However, one 'cannot fully separate the particularity of social death from the generality of each subject's being-toward-death, as if finitude were reducible to its political distribution, or for that matter, to its external imposition. This does not mean that we should turn our attention away from the particular political and material losses exacted by the history of racism and heterosexism in America. Indeed, the readings of literary texts by Chesnutt, Morrison, and Faulkner offered in subsequent chapters bear witness to this violence while working to rethink the law's erasure of minority kinship in relation to the absence that founds all social relations. Before turning to those literary readings, however, the remainder of this chapter aims to elaborate further how kinship is implicated in a dialectical negation that "precedes" any legal effacement of particular kinship relations.</span>


Our alternative is that we should have faith in a democratic messianicity- turning ourselves towards the possibility of an Other that has yet to arrive rather than immersing ourselves within the difficulty of subjectivity
Caputo ’97
John Caputo is the Thomas J. Watson Professor of Religion Emeritus at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Syracuse_University|Syracuse University]] Deconstruction in a Nutshell A Conversation with Jaques Derrida 1997 (173-175)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The particular bent that this Jewish-messianic gives deconstruction, the particular twist that the messianic takes in deconstruction, I would like to suggest, is to become a messianism of the democracy to come. Deconstruction is, I would say, still one more messianism, or at least a "quasi-messianism, so anxious, fragile, and impoverished . . . a quasitranscendental messianism" ( SdM267/ SoM168), an historically specific--French and late twentieth-century--philosophical, or quasiphilosophical, messianism, or a "postmodern messianism," if that word gives you a charge. Deconstruction takes the specific form of a democratic messianism, by which I mean a thought and practice in which everything is turned toward a democracy to come, which takes the form, as Derrida says, of "absolute hospitality, the 'yes' to the arrivant(e), the 'come' to the future that cannot be anticipated" ( SdM266-267/ SoM168). After all, the open-endedness of the messianic aspiration does not issue in speaking of a "monarchy to come" or an "oligarchy to come." The democracy to come is a democracy to come, an à venir with a determinate historical genealogy. In this messianism of the democracy to come, all eyes and ears are turned to everyone and everything that is ground under by the powers that be, the powers that are present, the powers that preside, which is what the scriptures call "the nations" (ethne). By keeping itself free of all prevailing idols, deconstruction dreams of a democracy that keeps itself open, welcoming, to the impossible, to the coming of the tout autre. By a democracy to come he is not associating himself, à la Richard Rorty, with the NATO-ese triumphalism of the Western democracies and "liberal euphoria," but with an ethico-political, I would say a prophetic, "aspiration" (as opposed to a "vision"). [[http://www.questia.com/reader/action/next/98138060#17|17 ]]A democratic messianism turns on a hope and faith in an order that allows disorder ("out of joint"), on a hope in something radically pluralistic, plurivocal, multi-cultural, heteromorphic, heterological, and heteronomic, something that outstrips what we today call nation and national citizenship (the "nations"), nationalism and nationality. In this messianic aspiration, the hegemonic rule of the most powerful nations, who dominate the so-called "United Nations," would be delimited in a new International, one that is attuned to the gratuitous sufferings that ensue from what Levinas called the hatred of the other. This is a quasipolitical, quasi-ethical, quasi-prophetic, post-Marxist, neo-democratic, Parisian messianism bent on keeping any prevailing or existing democracy structurally open to a democracy to come, which means painfully and acutely conscious of its own injustice, which is why deconstruction can be a pain. A democratic messianism is on the qui vive about all the ways in which every existing democracy is undemocratic, in which there are no democracies, my friends, not yet, for democracy is still to come. This democratic messianism is acutely conscious that the most unjust, the most undemocratic thought of all is that democracy is here, now, in Western Europe or the good old U.S.A., or in the New World Order. Derrida wants to keep the prophetic denunciation in place, always and already, never to silence the shrill voice of the prophetic claim that Israel is unfaithful to the Lord and constantly falls down before idols of presence, that she puts burnt offerings before justice. Such a "prophetic" claim is not, however, excused from the most constant and careful calculation, the most scrupulous and detailed analyses of institutions, laws, and programs that serve the interests of big money, and the most relentless criticism of leaders who pass themselves off as "democratic" even as they concern themselves not with substance but with their media image, not with the common weal but their own reelection. Deconstruction situates itself in the gap between all existing democracies, which are not democratic, and the democracy to come, and this precisely in order to keep alive with prophetic fervor a messianic faith in the unforeseeable and incalculable figure of the Just One, of the democracy, to come. [[http://www.questia.com/reader/action/next/98138061#19|19 ]]</span>



===Nihilism Case Turn=== 
Turn Nihilism- WIlderson’s hard ontological descriptions make fatalism inevitable - [if they win their ontological arguments, there is no reason why any ontic action could ever reverse it]
Bâ (teaches film at Portsmouth University (UK). He researches ‘race’, the ‘postcolonial’, diaspora, the transnational and film ‘genre’, African and Caribbean cinemas and film festivals) 11
(Saër Maty, The US Decentred, Cultural Studies Review, volume 17 number 2 September 2011)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">In chapter nine, ‘“Savage” Negrophobia’, he writes: The philosophical anxiety of Skins is all too aware that through the Middle Passage, African culture became Black ‘style’ ... Blackness can be placed and displaced with limitless frequency and across untold territories, by whoever so chooses. Most important, there is nothing real Black people can do to either check or direct this process ... Anyone can say ‘nigger’ because anyone can be a ‘nigger’. (235)7 Similarly, in chapter ten, ‘A Crisis in the Commons’, Wilderson addresses the issue of ‘Black time’. Black is irredeemable, he argues, because, at no time in history had it been deemed, or deemed through the right historical moment and place. In other words, the black moment and place are not right because they are ‘the ship hold of the Middle Passage’: ‘the most coherent temporality ever deemed as Black time’ but also ‘the “moment” of no time at all on the map of no place at all’. (279) Not only does Pinho’s more mature analysis expose this point as preposterous (see below), I also wonder what Wilderson makes of the countless historians’ and sociologists’ works on slave ships, shipboard insurrections and/during the Middle Passage,8 or of groundbreaking jazz‐studies books on cross‐cultural dialogue like The Other Side of Nowhere (2004). Nowhere has another side, but once Wilderson theorises blacks as socially and ontologically dead while dismissing jazz as ‘belonging nowhere and to no one, simply there for the taking’, (225) there seems to be no way back. It is therefore hardly surprising that Wilderson ducks the need to provide a solution or alternative to both his sustained bashing of blacks and anti‐ Blackness.9 Last but not least, Red, White and Black ends like a badly plugged announcement of a bad Hollywood film’s badly planned sequel: ‘How does one deconstruct life? Who would benefit from such an undertaking? The coffle approaches with its answers in tow.’ (340)</span>

Turns the case – greatest comparative threat
Miah quoting West in 94
(Malik Miah, Cornel West's Race Matters, May-June, http://www.solidarity-us.org/node/3079)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">In the chapter, “Nihilism in Black America,” West observes “The liberal/conservative discussion conceals the most basic issue now facing Black America: the nihilistic threat to its very existence. This threat is not simply a matter of relative economic deprivation and political powerlessness -- though economic well-being and political clout are requisites for meaningful Black progress. It is primarily a question of speaking to the profound sense of psychological depression, personal worthlessness, and social despair so widespread in Black America.” (12-13) “Nihilism,” he continues, “is to be understood here not as a philosophic doctrine ... it is, far more, the lived experience of coping with a life of horrifying meaningless, hopelessness, and (most important) lovelessness.” (14) “Nihilism is not new in Black America. . . . In fact,” West explains,”the major enemy of Black survival in America has been and is neither oppression nor exploitation but rather the nihilistic Threat -- that is, loss of hope and absence of meaning. For as long as hope remains and meaning is preserved, the possibility of overcoming oppression stays alive. The self-fulfilling prophecy of the nihilistic threat is that without hope there can be no future, that without meaning there can be no struggle.” (14-15) </span>


===Wilderson Indicts=== 
Wilderson’s method is flawed
a. US-centricity
Bâ (teaches film at Portsmouth University (UK). He researches ‘race’, the ‘postcolonial’, diaspora, the transnational and film ‘genre’, African and Caribbean cinemas and film festivals) 11
(Saër Maty, The US Decentred, Cultural Studies Review, volume 17 number 2 September 2011)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">A few pages into Red, White and Black, I feared that it would just be a matter of time before Wilderson’s black‐as‐social‐death idea and multiple attacks on issues and scholars he disagrees with run (him) into (theoretical) trouble. This happens in chapter two, ‘The Narcissistic Slave’, where he critiques black film theorists and books. For example, Wilderson declares that Gladstone Yearwood’s Black Film as Signifying Practice (2000) ‘betrays a kind of conceptual anxiety with respect to the historical object of study— ... it clings, anxiously, to the film‐as‐text‐as‐legitimate‐ object of Black cinema.’ (62) He then quotes from Yearwood’s book to highlight ‘just how vague the aesthetic foundation of Yearwood’s attempt to construct a canon can be’. (63) And yet Wilderson’s highlighting is problematic because it overlooks the ‘Diaspora’ or ‘African Diaspora’, a key component in Yearwood’s thesis that, crucially, neither navel‐gazes (that is, at the US or black America) nor pretends to properly engage with black film. Furthermore, Wilderson separates the different waves of black film theory and approaches them, only, in terms of how a most recent one might challenge its precedent. Again, his approach is problematic because it does not mention or emphasise the inter‐connectivity of/in black film theory. As a case in point, Wilderson does not link Tommy Lott’s mobilisation of Third Cinema for black film theory to Yearwood’s idea of African Diaspora. (64) Additionally, of course, Wilderson seems unaware that Third Cinema itself has been fundamentally questioned since Lott’s 1990s’ theory of black film was formulated. Yet another consequence of ignoring the African Diaspora is that it exposes Wilderson’s corpus of films as unable to carry the weight of the transnational argument he attempts to advance. Here, beyond the US‐centricity or ‘social and political specificity of [his] filmography’, (95) I am talking about Wilderson’s choice of films. For example, Antwone Fisher (dir. Denzel Washington, 2002) is attacked unfairly for failing to acknowledge ‘a grid of captivity across spatial dimensions of the Black “body”, the Black “home”, and the Black “community”’ (111) while films like Alan and Albert Hughes’s Menace II Society (1993), overlooked, do acknowledge the same grid and, additionally, problematise Street Terrorism Enforcement and Prevention Act (STEP) policing. The above examples expose the fact of Wilderson’s dubious and questionable conclusions on black film. Red, White and Black is particularly undermined by Wilderson’s propensity for exaggeration and blinkeredness. In chapter nine, ‘“Savage” Negrophobia’, he writes: The philosophical anxiety of Skins is all too aware that through the Middle Passage, African culture became Black ‘style’ ... Blackness can be placed and displaced with limitless frequency and across untold territories, by whoever so chooses. Most important, there is nothing real Black people can do to either check or direct this process ... Anyone can say ‘nigger’ because anyone can be a ‘nigger’. (235)7 Similarly, in chapter ten, ‘A Crisis in the Commons’, Wilderson addresses the issue of ‘Black time’. Black is irredeemable, he argues, because, at no time in history had it been deemed, or deemed through the right historical moment and place. In other words, the black moment and place are not right because they are ‘the ship hold of the Middle Passage’: ‘the most coherent temporality ever deemed as Black time’ but also ‘the “moment” of no time at all on the map of no place at all’. (279) Not only does Pinho’s more mature analysis expose this point as preposterous (see below), I also wonder what Wilderson makes of the countless historians’ and sociologists’ works on slave ships, shipboard insurrections and/during the Middle Passage,8 or of groundbreaking jazz‐studies books on cross‐cultural dialogue like The Other Side of Nowhere (2004). Nowhere has another side, but once Wilderson theorises blacks as socially and ontologically dead while dismissing jazz as ‘belonging nowhere and to no one, simply there for the taking’, (225) there seems to be no way back. It is therefore hardly surprising that Wilderson ducks the need to provide a solution or alternative to both his sustained bashing of blacks and anti‐ Blackness.9 Last but not least, Red, White and Black ends like a badly plugged announcement of a bad Hollywood film’s badly planned sequel: ‘How does one deconstruct life? Who would benefit from such an undertaking? The coffle approaches with its answers in tow.’ (340)</span>
Brazil Example
Bâ (teaches film at Portsmouth University (UK). He researches ‘race’, the ‘postcolonial’, diaspora, the transnational and film ‘genre’, African and Caribbean cinemas and film festivals) 11
(Saër Maty, The US Decentred, Cultural Studies Review, volume 17 number 2 September 2011)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Why? Because in Brazil the ‘alleged smell of the slaves’ bodies became an additional excuse for classifying them closer to animals than to humans’. (105) Attitudes resulting from this mindset permeate ways in which the body remains a place in which to re‐inscribe Africa as source of beauty and restoration of dignity. Additionally, nowadays black bodies are present(ed) positively in Brazil’s shopping malls, magazines, TV/soap operas, advertisements, and education. The blocos afro, created in the 1970s ‘under the influence of’ the US Black is Beautiful movement, can take credit for this presence’. (115) In other words, blocos afro develop a black identity through stories of ‘Africanness and representations of blackness’, an identity aligned with their ‘strategies of social promotion [connecting] discourse and practice ... culture and politics’. (117) It would be preposterous to talk about black Brazilians as socially or ontologically dead. At the same time, to take issues with Afro‐Brazilian activists’ and blocos’ anti‐racist discourse seems an arduous task. This is because it is grounded in engagement with history, place, federal and local government race policies (or race denials), and day‐to‐day anti‐black racism. Nevertheless, as Pinho rightly remarks, this anti‐racist discourse overlooks gender analysis: seldom do activists and blocos make reference to how ‘racism affects men and women differently’ while they fail ‘to question’ their own sexism, which leads to the female black body remaining ‘the preferred locus for performing the pedagogy of blackness’ through black beauty pageants for example. (136) Pinho objects to the policing of black women’s bodies, opposes notions of ethnic black identities and Mama Africa (158) at the same time as she finds linkages between biology, culture and politics problematic. Her suggested alternatives are most enlightening: one must remember that identities ... are constructed in the context of late capitalism, in which liberalism and discipline, coupled with bureaucracy, impinge on the most subjective conditions of identities ... we need to envision the possibility of constructing identities that are not based on the same terms that emerged out of colonialism and that circulated as a means to legitimize subordination and power. (175)</span>
b. Non-falsifiablility
His unverifiable generalizations are understandable because he relies on Lacanian and Marxist structuralism – We’ll quote Wilderson’s method section
Wilderson 10
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">A Note on Method¶ Throughout this book I use White, Human, Master, Settler, and sometimes non‑Black interchangeably to connote a paradigmatic entity that exists ontologically as a position of life in relation to the Black or Slave position, one of death. The Red, Indigenous, or "Savage" position exists liminally as half‑death and half‑life between the Slave (Black) and the Human (White, or non‑Black). I capitalize the words Red, White, Black, Slave, Savage, and Human in order to assert their importance as ontological positions and to stress the value of theorizing power politically rather than culturally. I want to move from a politics of culture to a culture of politics (as I argue in chapter a). Capitalizing these words is consistent with my argument that the array of identities that they contain is important but inessential to an analysis of the paradigm of power in which they are positioned. Readers wedded to cultural diversity and historical specificity may find such shorthand wanting. But those who may be put off by my pressing historical and cultural particularities‑culled from history, sociology, and cultural studies, yet neither historical, sociological, nor, oddly enough, cultural‑should bear in mind that there are precedents for such methods, two of which make cultural studies and much of social science possible: the methods of Karl Marx and Jacques Lacan. Marx pressed the microcosm of the English manufacturer into the service of a project that sought to explain economic relationality on a global scale.¶ Lacan's exemplary cartography was even smaller: a tiny room with not much more than a sofa and a chair, the room of the psychoanalytic encounter. As Jonathan Lee reminds us, at stake in Lacan's account of the psychoanalytic encounter is the realization of subjectivity itself, "the very being of the subject. "31 I argue that "Savage' Human, and Slave should be theorized in the way we theorize worker and capitalist as positions first and as identities second, or as we theorize capitalism as a paradigm rather than as an experience‑that is, before they take on national origin or gendered specfficity Throughout the course of this book I argue that "Savage' Human, and Slave are more essential to our understanding of the truth of institutionality than the positions from political or libidinal economy. For in this trio we find the key to our world's creation as well as to its undoing. This argument, as it relates to political economy, continues in chapter i, "The Ruse of Analogy:' In chapter 2, "The Narcissistic Slave," I shift focus from political economy to libidinal economy before undertaking more concrete analyses of films in parts 2, 3, and 4.¶ No one makes films and declares their own films "Human" while simultaneously asserting that other films (Red and Black) are not Human cinema. Civil society represents itself to itself as being infinitely inclusive, and its technologies of hegemony (including cinema) are mobilized to manufacture this assertion, not to dissent from it. In my quest to interrogate the bad faith of the civic "invitation;' I have chosen White cinema as the sine qua non of Human cinema. Films can be thought of as one of an ensemble of discursive practices mobilized by civil society to "invite:' or interpellate, Blacks to the same variety of social identities that other races are able to embody without contradiction, identities such as worker, soldier, immigrant, brother, sister, father, mother, and citizen. The bad faith of this invitation, this faux interpeLlation, can be discerned by deconstructing the way cinema's narrative strategies displace our consideration and understanding of the ontological status of Blacks (social death) onto a series of fanciful stories that are organized around conflicts which are the purview only of those who are not natally alienated, generally dishonored, or open to gratuitous violence, in other words, people who are White or colored but who are not Black. (I leave aside, for the moment, the liminality of the Native American position‑oscillating as it does between the living and the dead.)¶ Immigrant cinema of those who are not White would have sufficed as well; but, due to its exceptional capacity to escape racial markers, Whiteness is the most impeccable embodiment of what it means to be Human. As Richard Dyer writes, "Having no content, we [White people] can't see that we have anything that accounts for our position of privilege and power . . . . The equation of being white with being human secures a position of power:' He goes on to explain how "the privilege of being white... is not to be subjected to stereotyping in relation to one's whiteness. 'White people are stereotyped in terms of gender, nation, class, sexuality, ability and so on, but the overt point of such typification is gender, nation, etc. Whiteness generally colonises the stereotypical definition of all social categories other than those of race.'¶ Unlike Dyer, I do not meditate on the representational power of Whiteness, "that it be made strange:' divested of its imperial capacity, and thus make way for representational practices in cinema and beyond that serve as aesthetic accompaniments for a more egalitarian civil society in which Whites and non‑Whites could live in harmony. Laudable as that dream is, I do not share Dyer's assumption that we are all Human. Some of us are only part Human ("Savage") and some of us are Black (Slave). I find his argument that Whiteness possesses the easiest claim to Humanness to be productive. But whereas Dyer offers this argument as a lament for a social ill that needs to be corrected, I borrow it merely for its explanatory power‑as a way into a paradigmatic analysis that clarifies structural relations of global antagonisms and not as a step toward healing the wounds of social relations in civil society. Hence this book's interchangeable deployment of White, Settler, and Master with‑and to signify‑Human. Again, like Lacan, who mobilizes the psychoanalytic encounter to make claims about the structure of relations writ large, and like Marx, who mobilizes the English manufacturer to make claims about the structure of economic relations writ large, I am mobilizing three races, four films, and one subcontinent to make equally generalizable claims and argue that the antagonism between Black and Human supercedes the "antagonism" between worker and capitalist in political economy, as well as the gendered "antagonism" in libidinal economy. To this end, this book takes stock of how socially engaged popular cinema participates in the systemic violence that constructs America as a "settler society" (Churchill) and "slave estate" (Spilers). Rather than privilege a politics of culture(s)‑that is, rather than examine and accept the cultural gestures and declarations which the three groups under examination make about themselves‑1 privilege a culture of politics: in other words, what I am concerned with is how White film, Black film, and Red film articulate and disavow the matrix of violence which constructs the three essential positions which in turn structure US. antagonisms.</span>
Psychonalysis pre-determines the social world in advance – produces a metaphysics that ensures replication of domination
Robinson (PhD Political Theory, University of Nottingham) 05
(Theory and Event, Andrew, 8:1, The Political Theory of Constitutive Lack: A Critique)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">One of the functions of myth is to cut out what Trevor Pateman terms the "middle level" of analytical concepts, establishing a short-circuit between high-level generalizations and ultra-specific (pseudo-) concrete instances. In Barthes's classic case of an image of a black soldier saluting the French flag, this individual action is implicitly connected to highly abstract concepts such as nationalism, without the mediation of the particularities of his situation. (These particularities, if revealed, could undermine the myth. Perhaps he enlisted for financial reasons, or due to threats of violence). Thus, while myths provide an analysis of sorts, their basic operation is anti-analytical: the analytical schema is fixed in advance, and the relationship between this schema and the instances it organizes is hierarchically ordered to the exclusive advantage of the former. This is precisely what happens in Lacanian analyses of specific political and cultural phenomena. Žižek specifically advocates 'sweeping generalizations' and short-cuts between specific instances and high-level abstractions, evading the "middle level". 'The correct dialectical procedure... can be best described as a direct jump from the singular to the universal, bypassing the mid-level of particularity'. He wants a 'direct jump from the singular to the universal', without reference to particular contexts.</span>
We should be skeptical of any psychoanalytic methodology—it’s non-falsifiable, circular, and totalizing.
Francoise MELZER Mabel Greene Myers Professor of the Humanities in French and in Comparative literature @ Chicago ’87 Editor's Introduction: Partitive Plays, Pipe Dreams , Critical Inquiry, 13:2 (1987:Winter) p. 216-
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">Such seepage has, of course, appeared almost everywhere. Psychoanalysis has infiltrated such diverse areas as literature (to which it owes its myths), linguistics, philosophy, anthropology, history, feminism, psychology, archeology, neurology, to name some. And it is in the notion of "some," perhaps, that lies the crux of the problem. For there is in psychoanalysis an overt conviction that it exists as the ultimate totality, of which everything else is a part. Not content to see itself as one in a number of enterprises, the psychoanalytic project has at its foundation a vision of itself as the meaning which will always lie in wait; the truth which lies covered by "the rest." Jacques Derrida has, of course, pointed to this tendency. Psychoanalysis, he noted, wishes a peculiar logic for itself, one in which "the species would include the genus." Moreover, says Derrida in the same essay, once psychoanalysis has discovered itself, what it then again proceeds to discover around it is always itself.' What happens, then, is that psychoanalysis becomes a ubiquitous subject, as- similating every object into itself. But it is also a Subject which sees itself as omnipresent, omniscient, and without a center-precisely the terms in which God has been described. It is not then by chance that the unconscious is likened to a divinity: always present but revealing itself only obliquely and at privileged moments, the unconscious takes the place of the Judeo-Christian God. It is within every being, but inaccessible unless it "chooses" to manifest itself. And in a peculiar reversal of the notion of the partitive, psychoanalysis would have the unconscious reveal itself in fleeting moments and fragments, thereby suggesting its fullness and totality; and it would have "other" intellectual enterprises be only apparent totalities which are revealed through psychoanalysis alone to be "really" incomplete because they exist without recognizing the un- conscious and its mother, psychoanalysis itself. Ten years ago, a collection of essays appeared entitled Literature and Psychoanalysis: The Question of Reading: Otherwise. In her introduction to this volume, Shoshana Felman articulated an attempt to understand the "and" between these two fields: literature was no longer to play the role of slave to psychoanalysis' master; nor always to be the object to which psychoanalysis was subject. In the literary critic's perspective, literature is a subject, not an object; it is therefore not simply a body of knowledge with which to interpret, since psychoanalysis itself is equally a body of language, and literature also a body of knowledge, even though the mode of that knowledge may be different from that of psychoanalysis. 3 Felman suggested a "real dialogue" between literature and psychoanalysis, "as between two different bodies of language and between two different modes of knowledge." That dialogue, she argued, would have to take place outside of the (Hegelian) master-slave dialectic or we would fall back into "a unilateral monologue of psychoanalysis about literature." And yet the "dialogue" that Felman ultimately suggests does not in fact fall "outside" of the master-slave dialectic: "In an attempt to disrupt this monologic, master-slave structure, we would like to reverse the usual perspective, and to consider the relationship between psychoanalysis and literaturefrom the literary point of view." Felman notes that such a reversal does not intend "to simply reverse the positions of master and slave," but rather "to deconstruct the very structure of the opposition, mastery! slavery."' What Felman is running up against here, it seems to me, is once again the totalizing teleology of psychoanalysis. If we read her unspoken argument closely, we note that the logic is something like this: since literature always stands in the passive, slavish mode vis-à-vis psychoanalysis, and the latter always stands in the active, master role, then the only way radically to undo such a relation is by reversing it. But because the usual relation is so natural for psychoanalysis, and so natural even (significantly) to the slave, reversing the perspective does not simply reinstate the same relation with switched players, as one would normally expect. No. So unnatural is it for literature to play subject to psychoanalysis' object that the very dialectic is abolished. The slave is freed only because, when he assumes the role of master, he is so ludicrous that he destroys the concept of mastery altogether. Similarly, the original master is such an unconvincing slave that he too annihilates the place of slavery. But this is only a temporary state of affairs: once the role-playing is over, the players ineluctably return to their "rightful" positions. At best, in other words, literature can be imagined as the momentary equal of psychoanalysis, and this only when both are in disguise. Literature is not alone in its uneasy status with respect to psycho- analysis-quite the contrary. To all of the other disciplines psychoanalysis has visited, invaded, and (at times) colonized, it assigns the same "place" as it does to literature. In what Hegel called the "fight for recognition," they too, like literature, are already slaves-the ones who recognize rather than are recognized; the ones interpreted, not the active interpreter. It is not just that they go unrecognized in the discourse of the master; in the fight for recognition which is already lost by whatever chooses to do battle with psychoanalysis, that which is "outside" will not only be reduced to other, not only be ultimately unrecognized. It will also rarely recognize itself in the way it is articulated by psychoanalysis.</span>
c. Ahistorical
They assume that anti-black animus arises from nothingness but its caught up in a broader web of historical power relationships like Islamophobia and nativism
Charoenying (citing Nelson Maldonado-Torres, Prof of Ethnic Studies, UC Berkeley) 8
(Timothy, Islamophobia & Anti-Blackness: A Genealogical Approach, http://crg.berkeley.edu/content/islamophobia-anti-blackness-genealogical-approach)
<span style="font-size: 4pt;">The year 1492 marked a major turning point in the trajectory of Western Civilization. Elementary age children are taught this as the year Columbus famously crossed the Atlantic. An equally significant event that year, was the Spanish conquest of al-Andalus–a Moorish province on the southern Iberian peninsula established eight centuries earlier–and more importantly, the last major Muslim stronghold on the European continent. Critical race scholars have argued that these two events would not only shift the geopolitical balance of power from the Orient to the Occident, but fundamentally alter conceptions about religious and racial identity. According to Nelson Maldonado-Torres, of the University of California, Berkeley, the expulsion of the Moors from continental Europe marked a transition from an age of imperial relations between Christian and Muslim empires, to an age of European colonial expansion throughout the known world. The “discovery” of “godless” natives in the Americas would also inspire the great debates between Las Casas and Sepúlveda in 1550 on the nature of the human soul. Such a geopolitical and philosophical shift, Maldonado-Torres argues, would lead to a Eurocentric, re-categorization of humanity based upon religous—and ultimately racial—differences. Maldonado-Torres has proposed that anti-black racism is not simply an extension of some historical bias against blacks, but rather, is an amalgam of old-world Islamophobia linked to the history of the Iberian peninsula, and to the notion of souless beings embodied in popular conceptions about the indigenous natives of the Americas. These beliefs would contribute to an ideological basis for, and justification of, colonial conquests in the name of cultural and religious conversion, as well as pave the way for the enslavement and human trafficking of sub-Saharan Africans.</span>


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]