[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

=Round 2= 

=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5 --- NEW AFF= 



Plan - the United States federal judiciary should rule in favor of the plaintiff in state of Michigan vs. United States Army Corps of Engineers.

Warming Adv.

Warming is real and anthropogenic – only our evidence accounts for 2012 data
Sato, et al 1/15/13 [Makiko Sato is affiliated with the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies and the Center for Climate Systems Research at Columbia University. AND Hansen, James E. Hansen heads the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies in New York City. He is also an adjunct professor in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at Columbia University. Hansen is best known for his research in the field of climatology. In 1988, Hansen’s testimony before the US Senate was featured on the front page of the New York Times and helped raise broad awareness of global warming. Hansen’s work has inspired scientists and activists around the world to fight for climate change solutions. In recent years, Hansen has become an activist for action to mitigate the effects of climate change, which on several occasions has led to his arrest. In 2009 his book, [[http://www.amazon.com/Storms-My-Grandchildren-Catastrophe-Humanity/dp/B004A14W0E/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1301427631&sr=1-1|Storms of My Grandchildren: The Truth About the Coming Climate Catastrophe and Our Last Chance to Save Humanity]] was published.Global Temperature Update Through 2012 15 January 2013 J. Hansen, M. Sato, R. Ruedyhttp://www.columbia.edu/~jeh1/mailings/2013/20130115_Temperature2012.pdf]

Summary. Global surface temperature in 2012 was +0.56°C (1°F) warmer … moves inevitably into the next El Nino phase.

Contrary models systematically underestimate the rate and scope of warming
Rahmstorf, November 12 [Stefan Rahmstorf is a German oceanographer and climatologist. Since 2000, he has been a Professor of Physics of the Oceans at Potsdam University. He received his Ph.D. in oceanography from Victoria University of Wellington.Comparing climate projections to observations up to 2011, Stefan Rahmstorf et al 2012 Environ Res. Lett. 7 044035 [[http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/7/4/044035|doi:10.1088/1748-9326/7/4/044035]] © 2012 IOP Publishing Ltd Received 19 July 2012, accepted for publication 9 November 2012 Published 27 November 2012. [[http://iopscience.iop.org/1748-9326/7/4/044035/article]]]

Climate projections like those of the Intergovernmental Panel … climate changes before applying them to projections.

Warming causes extinction – perception of US leadership causes a spillover and global commitment
Ferris, 1/17/13 [The Big Thaw, [[http://www.brookings.edu/experts/ferrise|Elizabeth Ferris]] Co-Director, [[http://www.brookings.edu/about/projects/idp|Brookings-LSE Project on Internal Displacement]], [[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2013/01/the-big-thaw]]]

Global warming is occurring at a faster pace than … legacy issue for the Obama administration that will impact the world for generations.

Action now can reverse warming
Peters, et al December 12 [Peer Reviewed Journal, Glen, Center for International Climate and Environmental Research – Oslo (CICERO) The challenge to keep global warming below 2 [deg]C, Glen P. Peters, Robbie M. Andrew, Tom Boden, Josep G. Canadell, Philippe Ciais, Corinne Le Quéré, Nature Climate Change, [[http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/v3/n1/full/nclimate1783.html]]]

On-going climate negotiations have recognized a “significant gap” … global mitigation efforts are initiated soon, the goal of remaining below 2 °C will very soon become unachievable.

Emissions cuts are key to prevent a tipping point
Hansen et al 10 – Director of NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies [Dr. James Hansen, Dr. Makiko Sato (Physicist @ NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies), Dr. Pushker Kharecha (Researcher of earch sciences and astrobiology @ NASA/Goddard Institute for Space Studies), Dr. David Beerling (Professor of Animal and Plant Sciences @ University of Sheffield), Dr. Robert Berner (Professor Geology and Geophysics @ Yale University), Valerie Masson-Delmotte (Lab. Des Sciences du Climat et l’Environnement/Institut Pierre Simon Laplace, CEA-CNRS-Universite de Versailles Saint-Quentin en Yvelines), Dr. Mark Pagani (Professor of paleoceanography and paleoclimatology @ Yale University), Dr. Maureen Raymo (Paleoclimatologist/marine geologist @ Boston University), Dr. Dana L. Royer (Professor of Earth and Environmental Sciences @ Wesleyan University) & Dr. James C. Zachos ( Professor of Earth & Planetary Sciences @ University of California – Santa Cruzo) “Target atmospheric CO2: Where should humanity aim?” Open Atmos. Sci. J. (2008), vol. 2, pp. 217-231

Realization that today’s climate is far out of equilibrium … points and initiate dynamic responses that could be out of humanity’s control.

Failure to reduce CO2 emissions risks a planetary die-off – err on the side of caution
Bushnell 10 - Chief scientist at the NASA Langley Research Center [Dennis Bushnell (MS in mechanical engineering. He won the Lawrence A. Sperry Award, AIAA Fluid and Plasma Dynamics Award, the AIAA Dryden Lectureship, and is the recipient of many NASA Medals for outstanding Scientific Achievement and Leadership.) “Conquering Climate Change,” The Futurist, May-June, 2010

Carbon-dioxide levels are now greater than at any … forecasts, so, as dire as the forecasts sound, they’re actually conservative. Pg. 7-8

Overwhelming evidence concludes warming will trigger an imminent highly probable disaster – There is no room for doubt
Schneider 11 - Professor of Emergency Management Policy @ of North Carolina-Pembroke [Dr. Robert O. Schneider (Chair of the Department of Political Science & Public Administration), “Climate change: an emergency management perspective,” Disaster Prevention and Management, 20. 1 (2011): 53-62

Some people on the fringes of the scientific … and response as a guide for policymaking.

1AC – Impact #2
Biodiversity prevents extinction
Diner 94 (David N., Judge Advocate General’s Corps of US Army Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161, LN)

No species has ever dominated its fellow species as man … aircraft's wings, [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

Species loss outweighs nuclear war – it’s irreversible
Tobin 90 (Richard, The Expendable Future, pg. 22)

Norman Meyers observes, no other form of … correct is the loss of genetic and species diversity by destruction of natural habitats.

Preserving biodiversity is a moral imperative – err on the side of caution
Kucinich 94 (John, Judge specializing in Environmental Law, Environment Law Review, Spring, p. 501)JFS

Finally, and least pragmatic, is the moral … of a heritage their own ancestors had passed down for their enjoyment.

Most recent, qualified, and peer-reviewed studies prove you’re impact defense doesn’t apply – biodiversity loss is as bad as climate change
Bishop 12 (Adrian, Biodiversity loss from species extinctions may rival pollution and climate change impacts, May 2, [[http://www.earthtimes.org/nature/biodiversity-loss-species-extinction-top-driver-global-change/1960/]])

Species extinction and loss of … the National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis.


1AC – Impact #4
Empirical studies prove our impact – defer to statistical analysis
Royal 10 Director of cooperative threat reduction, ‘10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]

Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline … and deserves more attention.

Independently, decline causes isolationism, miscalculation, and nuclear war
Harris and Burrows 9 (Mathew, PhD European History @ Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer is a member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]])

Of course, the report encompasses more … rather than defense, potentially leading to escalating crises.

1AC – Links/Internals #1
Emissions cuts are impossible now because of the current precedent set by American Electric Power Co v. Connecticut
A) The EPA
Doniger and Pawa 11 (David Doniger is policy director and senior attorney for NRDC's climate and clean air program and Matt Pawa is the Legal Director of the Global Warming Legal Action Project. The Sky Will Not Fall: Why the Supreme Court Should Let States Sue the Country's Biggest Carbon Polluters, April 19, [[http://switchboard.nrdc.org/blogs/ddoniger/the_sky_will_not_fall_why_the.html]])

The defendants’ last big argument is that the … what America’s largest global warming polluters can do to curb their emissions.

B) Congress won’t act – empirics prove
Smith 11 (Jeffrey, Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, AEP v. Connecticut: the next chapter of climate change litigation, Environmental Liability Journal, [[http://www.cravath.com/files/Uploads/Documents/Publications/3306658_1.pdf]])

Third, the Court’s decision turns the GHG … during the time of a weakened economy.

C) Obama won’t act – scared of political backlash
AZ Daily Star 13 (2012 provided clear evidence of global warming, [[http://azstarnet.com/news/opinion/provided-clear-evidence-of-global-warming/article_79227a50-0080-5dfc-a70c-02c18bd5ea3a.html]])

Unfortunately, President Obama … to increase, along with the tremendous damage they cause.

Ruling in favor of the plaintiff in Michigan vs. ACE sets precedent for future action against warming that makes American Electric Power Co v. Connecticut’s decision irrelevant – solves warming
Fico 12 (Michael Fico is an assistant editor on the Journal of Civil Rights and Economic Development. He earned in BA in English from St. John's University. Public Nuisance's Place Since American Electric Power Co. v. Connecticut, December 10, [[http://jurist.org/dateline/2012/12/michael-fico-environmental-nuisance.php]])

The case in American Electric Power Co. v. Connecticut … put federal common law public nuisance on a precipice. And the federal courts have the power to give it a final push.

1AC – Links/Internals #2
Asian carp will destroy biodiversity in the Great Lakes – they eat out the bottom of the food chain and destroy the entire ecosystem
Walsh 10 (Bryan, Time Magazine Science, Asian Carp in the Great Lakes? This Means War! February 9, [[http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,1962108,00.html]])

They're called Asian carp, and they emigrated …make the Great Lakes a tourism hot spot.

Most objective studies and scientific consensus prove our argument
CRS 12 (Congressional Research Service, Eugene H. Buck Specialist in Natural Resources Policy Harold F. Upton Analyst in Natural Resources Policy Charles V. Stern Specialist in Natural Resources Policy Cynthia Brougher Legislative Attorney, Asian Carp and the Great Lakes Region, July 26, [[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41082.pdf]])

Scientists disagree on the ability of Asian … with pelagic, early life stages.

It spills over to other waterways
Sharp 9 (Eric, Great Lakes United, Asian carp invasion: Prepare for the worst, November 23rd, [[http://www.glu.org/en/asiancarp/headlines/asian-carp-invasion-prepare-worst]])

Truthfully, no one knows what will happen once Asian carp … moved by anglers as well when juvenile carp get mixed in with bait minnows.

The Great Lakes are a crucial biodiversity hotspot
GLIN 13 Great Lakes Information Network. “Environment of the Great Lakes Region,” Feb 27, [[http://www.great-lakes.net/envt/]]

The environment of the Great Lakes region … last known population of the white catspaw pearly mussel, the copper redhorse fish and the Kirtland's warbler.

Invasive species unravel the ecosystem
Robert Devine, conservation author, 1998, Alien Invasion, p. 7-8

By harming native plants and animals, … the ecosystems that sustain us will unravel.

1AC – Links/Internals #4
Asian carp invasion destroys the Great Lakes fishing industry
Markey 12 (Matt, Toledo Blade Outdoors Editor, Asian carp alert: Identifying a menace to the Great Lakes, September 30, [[http://www.toledoblade.com/local/2012/09/30/Asian-carp-alert-Identifying-a-menace-to-the-Great-Lakes.html]])

The most serious threat to the ecological balance … plankton-eating fish that provide the bulk of the diet for popular gamefish.

And it destroys the boating industry
Great Lakes Environment 11 (Environmental law blog Named to LexisNexis' 2011 Top 50 List, Great Lakes = 1.5 Million Jobs & $62 Billion Wages Annually, Feb 24, [[http://greatlakesenvironment.blogspot.com/2011/02/great-lakes-15-million-jobs-62-billion.html]])

Feb 24: During the discussions of the economic … Labor Statistics' Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages and its Occupational Employment Statistics program.

Both are crucial to economic growth
ASA 8 (American Sportfishing Association, “Sportfishing in America: An Economic Engine and Conservation Powerhouse,” [[http://www.southwickassociates.com/portfolio-view/u-s-2007-sportfishing-in-america-an-economic-engine-and-conservation-powerhouse/]])

Although Ed certainly isn’t thinking of this, his …fishing trip truly is an economic driving force in this nation’s economy.

The US is key to the global economy – it’s sustaining recovery now but will collapse absent the plan
Perry 12 – PhD, professor of economics and finance in the School of Management at the Flint campus of the University of Michigan
Mark, “U.S. Emerges As A Main Engine of Global Growth,” [[http://mjperry.blogspot.com/2012/04/us-emerging-as-main-engine-of-global.html]]

"The U.S. once again may be emerging as a main …traditional role, and the current pickup in growth is clearly being led by the U.S.”

Status Quo

Five Great Lakes states have attempted to sue the Army Corps of Engineers and Illinois for refusing to close waterways – their requests were denied in the district court but can still be taken against the federal government – ruling in favor of the plaintiff forces ACE to close the Chicago waterway system
Hall 12 (Noah, Environmental Law Professor @ Wayne State University Law School and visiting professor @ University of Michigan Law School, Federal district court dismisses states’ lawsuit seeking hydrologic separation of the Great Lakes and Mississippi River Basin to stop invasive Asian carp; states appeal, Great Lakes Law, December 22, [[http://www.greatlakeslaw.org/blog/]])

The Great Lakes states have lost another round in the … failing to protect the Great Lakes from invasive Asian carp.

==2AC== 
=2AC T – Investment= 
1) We meet the counter-interpretation: Supreme Court can force the legislature to provide funding
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BLACK SCHOOL EDUCATORS</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> 12/7/20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">08</span> <span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">(“EDUCATION IS A CIVIL RIGHT,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://www.nabse.org/civilright/ecrlegalrationale91808.pdf]]</span>)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">At the time of Rodriguez, the Court … food stamps, police protection, or any other state benefit.</span>
We meet that – voting aff forces the Army Corps to invest in transportation infrastructure
LWVBCC No Date<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS OF BERRIEN AND CASS COUNTIES, MICHIGAN, The Great Asian Carp Story, [[http://www.lwvbcc.org/files/GreatAsianCarpStory.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">On Monday, December 21 the … </span> <span class="UnderlineChar">in disputes between states. </span>

Other branches will enforce Supreme Court decisions
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Richard H.</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fallon</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, Jr., Professor of Constitutional Law, Harvard Law School, April</span> <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2005</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[“Legitimacy and the Constitution,” <span style="color: #1155cc;">[[@http://web.lexis-nexis.com/universe/document?_m=be00e4b6d189ddb647d9365044a5571c&_docnum=1&wchp=dGLbVzb-zSkVb&_md5=7105aae1669b5f945e6a9318b42fc69d]]</span>]</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Today, nearly all Supreme Court … </span><span class="BoldUnderlineChar">always obey the Court's rulings.</span>

No different than the Congress: Court decisions have the power and permanency of law
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This Nation 2008</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">(“Supreme Court Decision Making,”[[@http://www.thisnation.com/textbook/judiciary-decision.html|**http://www.thisnation.com/textbook/judiciary-decision.html**]], Accessed 7/25/2012)</span>
<span style="color: #222222; font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Interpretation as law A prominent attorney … </span> have all the effect and permanency of law.
Counterinterpretation – investment is expenditure that adds to physical capital stock
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson 6</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, [[http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">1.3 Definitions </span><span class="UnderlineChar">We define</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (net) public </span><span class="UnderlineChar">… </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Sahn and Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).</span>

=2AC T – Substantial= 
Counterinterpretation - “Substantial” is 2%
Words & Phrases 60

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">'Substantial" means "of real</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> worth and </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">…</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Education Soc., 181 N.E. 557, 42 Ohio App. 4.</span>
We meet – plan costs AT LEAST $4.3 billion
Anderson 12<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> (Tim, Great Lakes Legislative Caucus, Price tag to stop Asian carp with ecological barrier estimated in billions of dollars, [[http://www.csgmidwest.org/policyresearch/0312ecologicalbarrier.aspx]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">With concerns high about the potential … Asian carp traveling between the watersheds.</span>
“Substantially” is a relative term --- context key
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 64</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Vol. 40, p. 816)</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">The word “</span>substantially” <span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Moss v. Patterson Ballagh Corp. D.C.Cal., 80 P.Supp. C10, 637.</span>

=2AC Court Stripping CP= 
The court will strike down the counterplan
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Lawrence </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sager ’81</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Prof of Law, NYU 95 Harv. L. Rev. 17</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Thus, Congress has chosen, and … </span>constitutional amendment can rob the Court of this ability<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

Counterplan would encourage rights violations, including free speech violations, as it would literally remove jurisdiction over first amendment cases – that’s a decision rule
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Lawrence </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sager ’81</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> Prof of Law, NYU 95 Harv. L. Rev. 17</span>

<span class="UnderlineChar">Congress' authority to shape federal jurisdiction … adjudicate and enforce them fairly</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.150</span>
Turn: Separation of Powers
Double bind – either the counterplan doesn’t solve – some access to the court is left open – or it would crush separation of powers
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Lloyd C. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Anderson ‘ 00</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">C. Blake McDowell, Kr. Professor of Law, The University of Akron School of Law (39 Brandeis L.J. 417)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Hart's overriding thesis is … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> must remain available in that Court.</span>
The link is large – expansive jurisdiction for the court is at the heart of SOP
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Maxim O. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mayer-Cesiano ‘6</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (COMMENT: ON </span><span class="term" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">JURISDICTION</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">-STRIPPING: THE PROPER SCOPE OF </span><span class="term" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">INFERIOR</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> FEDERAL COURTS' INDEPENDENCE FROM </span><span class="term" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">CONGRESS, </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">8 U. Pa. J. Const. L. 559, May)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Less obviously, </span><span class="term" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Congress's</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> power to administer</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> … </span><span class="term" style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">jurisdiction</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> to do so over time.</span>

Maintaining SOP is the biggest impact—violations outweigh nuclear war.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Redish and Cisar 91</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">—Professor of Law and Public Policy at Northwestern, Law Clerk to Chief Judge William Bauer of the United States Court of Appeals (“Constitutional Perspectives: Article: ‘If Angels Were To Govern’: The Need for Pragmatic Formalism In Separation of Powers Theory,” Duke Law Journal, December, p. 449)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">In any event, the political history of … </span><span class="UnderlineChar">the position of </span>saying, "I told you so."

=2AC Immigration DA= 
House republicans will derail immigration – at best it will take too long for the plan to affect it
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nakamura and O’Keefe 4/25</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, David Nakamura and Ed O’Keefe, “House conservatives to push own immigration agenda”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/house-conservatives-to-push-own-immigration-agenda/2013/04/25/32423274-adb2-11e2-8bf6-e70cb6ae066e_story.html]] MF</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Influential </span>House conservatives signaled<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> … to the emerging Senate agreement.</span>

Obama will continue to invest PC on gun control.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wade 4-19</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">-13 (Dave, “Obama Declares Fight will Go On after Gun Control Blocked in Senate,” Daily Political, [[http://www.dailypolitical.com/politics/obama-declares-fight-will-go-on-after-gun-control-blocked-in-senate.htm)/dp|http://www.dailypolitical.com/politics/obama-declares-fight-will-go-on-after-gun-control-blocked-in-senate.htm)//dp]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">President Barack </span>Obama called the <span class="UnderlineChar"> … </span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">campaign trail towards the 2014 midterm elections.</span>

Gun control failure proves either Obama has no PC or his PC is useless.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Thrush and Epstein 4-17</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">-13 (Glenn and Reid J., “Gun control: President Obama’s biggest loss,” POLITICO, [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/gun-control-vote-obamas-biggest-loss-90244.html)/dp|http://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/gun-control-vote-obamas-biggest-loss-90244.html)//dp]]</span>

Never before had<span class="UnderlineChar"> President Barack …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">were never really in play, sources familiar with the situation told POLITICO.</span>

The counterplan rules immediately, but controversial opinions aren’t released until June.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">USCourts.gov 10</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> ("U.S. Supreme Court Procedures," date last modified, [[http://www.uscourts.gov/EducationalResources/ConstitutionResources/SeparationOfPowers/USSupremeCourtProcedures.aspx]])</span>

All opinions <span class="UnderlineChar">of the Court are</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">, … </span> last day <span class="BoldUnderlineChar">of the term</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
No link –
Court decisions don’t hurt politicians – they serve as a scapegoat for unpopular actions
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">GARRETT & STUTZ 05</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> Dallas Morning News Staff</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">[Robert T., and Terrence, “Justices to decide if overhaul needed after bills fail in Legislature,” August 19, 2005, [[http://www.dallasnews.com/sharedcontent/dws/news/texassouthwest/legislature/schoolfinance/stories/082005dntexsession.8bd31b4a.html]]]</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">That could foreshadow the court's response … </span> politicians to say their hands are tied."
=2AC Court Capital DA= 
No link
A) They vote the day of oral arguments – the case has already been decided
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US Courts Website</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> accessed </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> [[http://www.uscourts.gov/outreach/topics/hamdan/procedures.html]] </span>

When oral arguments are concluded<span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> usually only a Friday Conference is held. </span>

B) Court decisions are un-noticed
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Noah </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feldman 12</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> ( professor of constitutional and international law at Harvard, “Supreme Court’s Super Mondays Don’t Serve Justice,” [[http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-17/supreme-court-s-super-mondays-don-t-serve-justice.html]], Accessed 7/28/2012) </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">The club of Supreme Court devotees … </span><span class="UnderlineChar"> be the exception that proves the rule.</span>

C) Particular decisions have no impact on court capital
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Anke </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Grosskopf</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, University of Pittsburgh; Jeffery J. Mondak, Florida State </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">1998</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> Political Research Quarterly, Vol. 51, No. 3. (Sep., 1998), JSTOR </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Opinion about the Supreme Court may influence opinion … </span> strongest determinants of institutional support<span class="UnderlineChar">.</span>

Winners win for the Courts—controversial decisions enhance the court’s legitimacy
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">David </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Law 2009</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Professor of Law and Professor of Political Science, Washington University in St. Louis, Georgetown Law Journal, March 2009, 97 Geo. L.J. 723; “A Theory of Judicial Power and Judicial Review,” Lexis)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Part IV of this Article discusses a counterintuitive … Brown v. Board of Education n27 and Cooper v. Aaron. n28</span>

Court capital is resilient
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Balkin</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">, Professor of Constitutional Law and the First Amendment, Yale Law School, **20**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">01</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">110 Yale L.J. 1407</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Court capital not finite – Bush v. Gore proves</span>**
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Jack **Balkin**, Knight Professor of Constitutional Law at Yale, 2001</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">110 Yale L.J. 1407</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">In any case, </span>there is no doubt<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">in my mind</span><span class="UnderlineChar"> …</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">,</span>it can<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">certainly</span>survive this.

=2AC Apocalypse K= 
Apocalyptic imagery is GOOD. By showing how current institutions are fallible, it catalyzes social change and creates an ethos of preventive foresight.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kurasawa 4</span>(Fuyuki, Assistant Professor of Sociology at York University, “Cautionary Tales: The Global Culture of Prevention and the Work of Foresight,” Constellations, 11:4, p. 457-8)
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Returning to the point I made at the beginning … first aspect of the question that we need to tackle.</span>
Elevating Human extinction to a real possibility encourages a new social ethic to solve conflicts and create meaning to life.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Epstein and Zhao 9</span>Richard J. Epstein and Y. Zhao, Laboratory of Computational Oncology,Department of Medicine,University of Hong Kong, Professorial Block,Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong. “The Threat That Dare Not Speak Its Name: Human Extinction”. Perspectives in Biology and Medicine, volume 52, number 1 (winter 2009):116–25. Project Muse.

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Final ends for all species are … often dismiss as </span>“human nature”<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;"> (Tudge 1989).</span>

Threat construction is good – it allows us to anticipate and prevent danger
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Berke 98</span>Joseph Berke, Found. And Dir. Arbours Crisis Centre, 1998, Even Paranoids Have Enemies, p. 5-6
<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">Internal and external persecution … </span> to face them and cope with them<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow',sans-serif;">.</span>


=Round 6= 

=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]