[[toc]]
=Round 1 - Climate Aff= 

==1AC Advantage—Economy (2:30)== 
Contention 1 is the Economy

Existing warming is irreversible
Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]
Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to
AND
magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.

Climate resilient infrastructure investment is critical to maintain the recovery and prevent future economic collapse—our evidence assumes your turns
Hendricks et. al. ‘4-18 [4/18/13, Bracken Hendricks and Cathleen Kelly are Senior Fellows at the Center for American Progress. Adam James is a Research Assistant for Energy Policy at the Center. “Infrastructure and Resilience: Forging a National Strategy for Reconstruction and Growth,” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2013/04/18/60960/infrastructure-and-resilience-forging-a-national-strategy-for-reconstruction-and-growth/]
The president’s dual priorities to both repair our deteriorating infrastructure and develop solutions to climate
AND
it will get much worse before it gets better. America must act now

Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation—escalates
Harris and Burrows, ‘09 [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

Broad studies prove our argument
Royal, ‘10 [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

Growth makes war impossible
Boudreux, professor of economics, ‘06 [10/20/06, Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]]

During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University
AND
are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.


Slow growth makes the US uncooperative and desperate – leads to hegemonic wars
Goldstein 7 - Professor of Global Politics and International Relations @ University of Pennsylvania, Avery Goldstein, “Power transitions, institutions, and China's rise in East Asia: Theoretical expectations and evidence,” [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064|Journal of Strategic Studies]], Volume[[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=t713636064~tab=issueslist~branches=30#v30|30]], Issue [[http://www.informaworld.com/smpp/title~db=all~content=g780703608|4 & 5 ]]August 2007, pages 639 – 682
Two closely related, though distinct, theoretical arguments focus explicitly on the consequences for
AND
the period prior to the possible crossover.19 pg. 647-650

Economic collapse causes environmental destruction and extinction
Monbiot 9 – George Monbiot, columnist for The Guardian, has held visiting fellowships or professorships at the universities of Oxford (environmental policy), Bristol (philosophy), Keele (politics), Oxford Brookes (planning), and East London (environmental science, August 17, 2009, “Is there any point in fighting to stave off industrial apocalypse?,” online: http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/cif-green/2009/aug/17/environment-climate-change
The interesting question, and the one that probably divides us, is this:
AND
fight is still worth having; you, because you think it isn't.

Growth solves non-warming environmental impacts—we have passed the tipping point on reliance—only innovation solves
Baker 2k – Former Industrial Economist
Brent Barker, electrical engineer, and manager of corporate communications for the Electric Power Research Institute and former industrial economist and staff author at SRI International and as a commercial research analyst at USX Corporation, “Technology and the Quest for Sustainability.” EPRI Journal, Summer, INFOTRAC
Sustainability has been the subject of much discussion and a steady stream of policy forums
AND
full measure to future generations everywhere in the world. Thatfuture begins now.

Resource scarcity is self-correcting
Haynes 8 (Beth, Professor of Economics at Brigham Young University-Hawaii, “Finite Resources vs. Infinite Resourcefulness”, August 19, http://wealthisnottheproblem.blogspot.com/2008/08/finite-resources-vs-infinite.html)

It’s common sense. Save today in order to have some available tomorrow. It’s
AND
been with us since ancient times and they have consistently been proven wrong.

==1AC Advantage - Leadership== 
US climate leadership decimated by DOHA – plan key to galvanize action on warming
Miao ’12 [12/16/12, William Miao is a Yale Climate Institute Fellow, COP Fellow, Doha Talks Reporter, MEM Candidate @ The Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “OBAMA’S SECOND TERM – THE WORLD AWAITS MUCH NEEDED LEADERSHIP ON CLIMATE CHANGE,” December 16th 2012, http://environment.yale.edu/blog/2012/12/obamas-second-term-the-world-awaits-much-needed-leadership-on-climate-change/]
“We want our children to live in an America that […] isn’t threatened by
AND
given to the envoys, and no new commitment was seen in Doha.

US climate adaptation policy key to climate leadership—US actions allow for global adaptation dialogue—that restores US influence
Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
America’s climate choices regarding limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapting to climate
AND
, 2008; Bang et al., 2007; World Bank, 2010).

Failure to seriously fund adaptation kills the credibility of global efforts—US engagement is critical
Jacobs et al, ’10 [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
Considering the Role of the United States in Global Adaptation Activities In fact, adaptation
AND
for a significant U.S. role in international climate change adaptation.

Action on climate adaptation reverses the negative perception of US hard power and solves soft power
Joseph S. Nye, Jr 2009 - Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Los Angeles Times, bhhsnormans.net)
The Pentagon is the best resourced arm of the government, but there are limits
AND
United States managed to recover its soft power. It can happen again.

Soft power solves a laundry list of extinction threats, turns your war scenarios
Jervis ‘9 [Robert Jervis is a Professor of International Politics at Columbia, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective,” World Politics, Muse,
To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can
AND
American vision and believe that its leadership is benign. [End Page 211

Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes extinction
Ikenberry ’02 [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]
Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however. Unchecked U.S. power
AND
tend to trigger self-encirclement by their own overestimation of their power.




=Round 2 - College Prep FP (Mayport)= 

==1NC – Immigration DA (2NR)== 
Immigration reform is likely in the status quo, but not certain—Obama’s charm offensive is critical via bipartisan cooperation
Dennis, ‘4/19 [04/19/13, Steven T. Dennis, Roll Call, “Gun Loss Shouldn't Deter Obama Charm Offensive, Republicans Say”, http://www.rollcall.com/news/gun_loss_shouldnt_deter_obama_charm_offensive_say_republicans-224181-1.html]
Several Republican senators say President Barack Obama should keep up his charm offensive despite seeing
AND
in last year’s elections and their interest in avoiding a repeat in 2014.

The aff spoils the mood of bipartisan cooperation—transportation bills create interparty fights and disagreements
Freemark ’12 [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

Bipartisanship is key—the state of negotiations matter
Fabian, ‘13 [01/30/13, Jordan Fabian, “Obama Confident Immigration Reform Passes This Year,” [[http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/Politics/president-obama-confident-immigration-reform-passes-year/story?id=18358660]]]
President Barack Obama expressed confidence on Wednesday that he would sign comprehensive immigration reform into
AND
security is a precondition for gaining legal permanent residence, and then citizenship.

Immigration reform generates an effective base of IT experts.
McLarty, ‘9 (Thomas F. III, President – McLarty Associates and Former White House Chief of Staff and Task Force Co-Chair, “U.S. Immigration Policy: Report of a CFR-Sponsored Independent Task Force”, 7-8, http://www.cfr.org/ publication/19759/us_immigration_policy.html)
We have seen, when you look at the table of the top 20 firms
AND
going to strengthen, I think, our system, our security needs.

That deters and solves the impact to cyberattacks
Saydjari, ‘8 (O. Sami, Cyber Defense Agency, LLC, “Structuring for Strategic Cyber Defense: A Cyber Manhattan Project Blueprint”, 2008 Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, http://www.acsac.org/2008/program /keynotes/saydjari.pdf)
As a step toward a security research plan that includes such capabilities, we should
AND
infrastructures. Currently, adversaries can attack critical systems without investing substantial resources.

Cyberterrorism will cause accidental launch that triggers the Dead Hand and nuclear war
Fritz, ‘9 (Jason, BS – St. Cloud, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control”, Study Commissioned on Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Disarmament, July, www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc)

Direct control of launch


The US uses the two-man rule to achieve a higher level of security
AND
of mass DDoS attacks, real world protests, and accusations between governments.

==1NC – T Military== 
Transportation infrastructure is limited to services that facilitate private economic activity—military action is excluded—prefer our evidence which uses the latest CBO definition
Musick 10 (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)

Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types
AND
U.S. economy) of the public sector's funding of infrastructure.
For the purposes of CBO's analysis, "transportation infrastructure" includes the systems and facilities that support the following types of activities:
■ Vehicular transportation: highways, roads, bridges, and tunnels;
■ Mass transit subways, buses, and commuter rail;
■ Rail transport primarily the intercity service provided by Amtrak;*
■ Civil aviation: airport terminals, runways, and taxi-ways, and facilities and navigational equipment for air traffic control: and
■ Water transportation: waterways, ports, vessel*, and navigational systems.
The category "water infrastructure" includes facilities that provide the following:
■ Water resources: containment systems, such as dams, levees, reservoirs, and watersheds; and sources of fresh water such as lakes and rivers; and
■ Water utilities: supply systems for distributing potable water, and wastewater and sewage treatment systems and plants.
Consistent with CBO'% previous reports on public spending for transportation and water infrastructure,
AND
those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).

Vote negative
a. Limits—their interpretation justifies the government spending money on runways, roads, military ports, fueling stations OR procuring technology and machinery to move military resources on any installation in the world—that makes specific clash impossible and creates a race to terrible generics
b. Ground—core negative generics like politics, states CP, and the spending DA are centered around domestic economic infrastructure
==1NC – Dispersal CP== 
Text: The United States federal government should build and operate a fleet of flattop aircraft carriers dispersed throughout the US coasts.

Supercarriers are obsolete—spreading the fleet into a number of small flattops solves the aff
Axe 11 [June 2011, David, an independent military correspondent based in South Carolina. He has reported from Iraq, Afghanistan, East Timor, Lebanon, Somalia, Chad and other conflict zones, “Are Aircraft Carriers Slowly Becoming Obsolete?”, [[http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2011/06/are-aircraft-carriers-slowly-becoming-obsolete/]]]
For seven decades, they’ve been the ultimate symbol of American power. When conflicts
AND
often. That’s why a smaller carrier is possible, according to Hendrix.

==1NC – Race K== 
Their choice of transportation investment is not neutral – they are conscious attempts at increasing racial subordination
Bullard, Johnson, Torres ‘4 [2004, Robert, Glenn, Angel, , Ph.D., (Environmental Sociology) Highway Robbery Transportation Racism & New Routes to Equity, Cambridge]
Transportation systems do not spring up out of thin air. They are planned·~
AND
economically depressed and deteriorating central cities and that transportation apartheid has been created.

The affirmative rhetorical silence on whiteness is an active stance that allows white privilege to thrive by masking its existence and treating is as an assumed norm.
DR. CRENSHAW Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. 1997
Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION

This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how the ideology of white privilege operates through
AND
of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.

Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.
MEMMI Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris 2000, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.


==1NC Leadership== 
Mayfolk homebasing trades off with shore facility modernization and amphibious ships which solve the case
Webb 9 [July 11th, 2009, Jim, US Senator from Virginia, a member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services and a former secretary of the Navy. Letter to Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn,
AND
ship-repair companies in Jacksonville than a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.

Hegemony fails—lack of legitimacy means material power is decoupled from effective influence
Maher, ’11 [Winter 2011, Richard Maher, Ph.D. candidate in the Political Science department at Brown University, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68]
And yet, despite this material preeminence, the United States sees its political and
AND
how best to position itself in the “post-unipolar” world.

Carriers aren’t key—submarines provide surge capacity and control conflict
UNDERSEA WARFARE 2004 [Fall 2004, Official Magazine of US Submarine Services, “Surge Protectors Submarines Prove Vital to the Navy's Fleet Response Plan,” [[http://www.navy.mil/navydata/cno/n87/usw/issue_24/surge.htm]]]
The basic goal of FRP is to keep the Navy ready to surge adequate forces
AND
Program (FRTP) instruction that fully implements the FRP,” said Sullivan.

Hegemonic stability theory is academic garbage—their evidence relies on policy hubris
Fettweis, ’11 [September, 2011, Christopher J. Fettweis, Department of Political Science, Tulane University, “The Superpower as Superhero: Hubris in U.S. Foreign Policy”, [[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1902154]]]
First, the hegemonic-stability argument shows the classic symptom of hubris: It
AND
They will participate at times in our adventures, but minimally and reluctantly.

Naval decline inevitable
Halperin, ‘10/29 [October 29, 2012, Mike Halperin, “America's Capsizing Naval Policy”, http://markhelprin.com/writings/2012/10/americas-capsizing-naval-policy]
To hold that numbers and mass in war are unnecessary is as dangerous as believing
AND
attend to the Navy, in quality, numbers, and without delay.

New Chinese Dong-Feng missiles mean they can’t solve – Star this Card
Talmadge, ‘10 [Eric Talmadge, 8/8/10, Associated Press Writer, “Chinese aircraft-carrier-killing missile could end U.S. Pacific dominance”, [[http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html]]]
ABOARD THE USS GEORGE WASHINGTON — Nothing projects U.S. global air and
AND
epoch of international order in which Beijing emerges to displace the United States."

More evidence – no reason a navy is key to anything
Goure, ’10 [Daniel Vice President, Lexington Institute, 672/10, “Can The Case Be Made For Naval Power?” [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/can-the-case-be-made-for-naval-power-?a=1&c=1171]]]
This is no longer the case. The U.S. faces no great
AND
and commerce of other states in jeopardy, seem relatively unimportant in today’s world


==1NC Pacific Rebalancing== 
It’s inevitable – the sequester has already stopped carrier deployments
Shinkman, writer for U.S. News & World Report, 3/5/2013
(Paul, “U.S. Navy Can't Deploy Ships, But Can Build Them,” http://www.usnews.com/news/articles/2013/03/05/us-navy-cant-deploy-ships-but-can-build-them)
The sequester may h...<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">n George Little, which was reported by the Associated Press.</span>

The Atlantic fleet can’t help – sequester stops forward deployments
Rose, staff reporter for WND, 2/28/2013
(Taylor, “Military Chiefs: Sequester Compromises U.S. Defenses,” http://www.wnd.com/2013/02/military-chiefs-sequester-compromises-u-s-defenses/)
Members of Congress...<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">“affects readiness to respond.”</span>

No deployments
Cavas, writer for Defense News, 1/24/2013
(Chris, “U.S. Navy: Sequester Means Strike Groups Could Stay Home,” http://www.defensenews.com/article/20130124/DEFREG02/301240022/U-S-Navy-Sequester-Means-Strike-Groups-Could-Stay-Home)
For the U.S. Navy, the rising ...<span style="font-size: 13px; line-height: 1.5;">ts for our deployed units.”</span>

South China Sea won’t escalate—no incentive to create war
Mingjiang, ’12 [June 14th, 2012, Li Mingjiang, RSIS, “China’s non-confrontational assertiveness in the South China Sea”, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2012/06/14/china-s-non-confrontational-assertiveness-in-the-south-china-sea/]
But, other factors may very well prevent actual confrontation from breaking out. China’s
AND
fences with relevant parties in ways that are justifiable to its domestic audience.

Korean war will never escalate
Leslie H. Gelb 11/23/2010 President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations “The Next Korean War?”
The Daily Beast http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-11-23/north-koreas-attack-on-south-korea-leslie-h-gelb-on-the-prospects-for-war/
This may be the most dangerous moment on the Korean Peninsula since the truce ending
AND
North Koreans have provided quietly during several recent visits by private American groups.

No risk of indo pak war
The News International ’13 [April 18, 2013. The News International is a newspaper is the largest [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/English_language|English language]] [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Newspaper|newspaper]] in [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pakistan|Pakistan]]. The News has an ABC certified circulation of 140,000. [[http://www.thenews.com.pk/Todays-News-13-22307-Pakistan-wants-meaningful-talks-with-India-president]]]
MUZAFFARABAD: President Asif Ali Zardari on Wednesday, while terming Kashmir an important segment
AND
. People round the world take strength from the heroism of Kashmiri people.

Wouldn’t cause extinction
Copley News Service, 2K2 (Bruce Lieberman, “Fallout from nuclear war in South Asia seen as unlikely to reach U.S.”, http://www.globalsecurity.org/org/news/2002/020610-indopak1.htm)
The horror of a nuclear war between India and Pakistan could decimate South Asia's largest
AND
products. "Essentially, it would have no effect," Riddle said.

US won’t be drawn into any asia wars
Jeffrey Record 01, professor of strategy and international security at the Air War College at Maxwell AFB, senior research fellow at the Center for Int’l Strategy, Technology, and Policy at the Georgia Institute of Technology, PhD from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Winter 2001, Aerospace Power Journal, v15 i4, “Thinking about China and War,” p. InfoTrac OneFile

Chinese military action against Asian mainland states not allied with the United States probably would
AND
-Pakistani exchange during the South Asian nuclear-war scare of 1999.

==1NC Status Quo== 
They have cards from newspapers – but the Navy says the risk is low
Hampton Roads Military Affairs Commission 3/15/2013
(http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf)
There is a pressing need for a more comprehensive strategic-risk assessment. The
AND
the risk that a catastrophic event could close Hampton Roads is “low.”

The plan doesn’t actually move the carrier – it only invests in transportation infrastructure – but other infrastructure is the barrier:

Navy Record of Decision, republished by Congressman Crenshaw, 2009
(http://crenshaw.house.gov/index.cfm/mobile/pressreleases?ID=17caa7b6-19b9-b4b1-12c0-936648f6f31d)
The consolidation of CVN capabilities in the Hampton Roads area on the East Coast presents
AND
the Hampton Roads area for Atlantic Fleet CVNs should a catastrophic event occur.


They cover a fraction of the costs – here’s the Navy’s accounting

O’Rourke, specialist in Naval Affairs at the Congressional Research Service, 3/15/2013
(Ronald, “Navy Nuclear Aircraft Carrier Homeporting at Mayport,” http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf)


Tons of other requirements – topical action is insufficient
Hampton Roads Military Affairs Commission 3/15/2013
(http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/R40248.pdf)
Significant increases in personnel, both military and federal employees, will be required to
AND
? What specific capabilities must be re-established and at what cost?
Precisely what CVN maintenance will be supported at NAVSTA Mayport after all facilities have been
AND
What conventional maintenance will be done by the maintenance personnel at NAVSTA Mayport?

Their entire aff is wrong—Norfolk is secure and there’s no need to disperse
Petersen 9 [January 2009, Gordon I., Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]]]
The Navy has made no compelling argument to justify its proposal to homeport a nuclear
AND
such a move in a comprehensive report to the appropriate congressional defense committees.


Plan threatens the Florida Manitee and the American right whale
Petersen 9 [January 2009, Gordon I., Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]]]

Issue 2: The Navy’s proposal to homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at
AND
increase should the Navy homeport a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at Mayport.

Right Whale is an Umbrella species- protects biodiversity
CEC No Date [Commission for Environmental Cooperation, North America, http://www.cec.org/soe/files/en/SOE_SpeciesCommon_en.pdf]
Umbrella species are those whose effective conservation will result in the protection of many other species that share the same habitat. Forhighly migratory animalssuch as theleatherback turtle, hawksbill turtle, loggerhead turtle, right whale, gray whale, pink-footed shearwater, short-tailed albatross and whooping crane, protection of umbrella species means protecting a whole suite of linked habitats—and the myriad organisms they support.

Florida Manatee is a keystone species
Bonde 12 [2012, Robert, employed by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service as part of the Sirenia Project. He continues to work for the Sirenia Project, now under the U.S. Geological Survey, where he has been studying manatee biology for more than 31 years, “Population genetics and conservation of the Florida manatee: Past, present, and future,” [[http://udini.proquest.com/view/population-genetics-and-goid:304666393/]]]
25 implemented at the turn of the 19 th century. Following the implementation
AND
, have provided invaluable data on the life history of the Florida manatee.

Loss of biodiversity causes extinction.
Diner, 94 [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161
To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or Dismal Swamp southeastern shrew
AND
, 80 [hu]mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.

US force presence incites terrorism—naval withdrawal solves
de CASTRO 2 [December 2002, Samuel Fletcher, MA Candidate at the Naval Postgraduate School, “Naval Coalition Building With The GCC States,” December, [[http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA459812]]]
Since the end of WWI, the Persian Gulf Region’s resources have brought it to
AND
as well as the desire of the ruling regimes to stay in power.

Terrorists won’t target Norfolk
Petersen 9 [January 2009, Gordon I., Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb, [[http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf]]]
Issue 2: There is no question that the risk of a terrorist attack somewhere
AND
aftershocks, and/or fear among the U.S. population.”


Institutional alt causes outweigh any plan benefit to the navy
Cropsey 10 [January 2010, Seth, Senior Fellow at the Hudson Institute, Washington, DC He served as Naval Officer from 1985 to 2004 and as deputy senior under secretary of the Navy in the administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. Bush, “The US Navy in Distress,” Strategic Analysis Vol. 34 No. 1, January 2010, pgs 35-45, [[http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/Cropsey_US_Navy_In_Distress.pdf]]]
In February 2009, the Ticonderoga-class guided missile cruiser U.S.
AND
as continue from Somali piracy mean for the future of US national security?



=Round 3 - Crosby GL (FAA)= 
==1NC – Immigration DA== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform is likely in the status quo, but not certain—Obama’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">charm</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> offensive is critical via bipartisan cooperation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dennis, ‘4/19</span> [04/19/13, Steven T. Dennis, Roll Call, “Gun Loss Shouldn't Deter Obama Charm Offensive, Republicans Say”, http://www.rollcall.com/news/gun_loss_shouldnt_deter_obama_charm_offensive_say_republicans-224181-1.html]
Several Republican senators say President Barack Obama should keep up his charm offensive despite seeing
AND
in last year’s elections and their interest in avoiding a repeat in 2014.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The aff </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">spoils</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the mood of bipartisan cooperation—transportation bills create interparty fights and disagreements</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freemark ’12</span> [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bipartisanship is key—the state of negotiations matter</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fabian, ‘13</span> [01/30/13, Jordan Fabian, “Obama Confident Immigration Reform Passes This Year,” [[http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/Politics/president-obama-confident-immigration-reform-passes-year/story?id=18358660]]]
President Barack Obama expressed confidence on Wednesday that he would sign comprehensive immigration reform into
AND
security is a precondition for gaining legal permanent residence, and then citizenship.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves relations with India</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Williams ‘12</span> [11/9/2012, Carol J. Williams. “Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform,” [[http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html]]]
"Comprehensive immigration reform will see expansion of skilled labor visas," predicted B.
AND
see the immigration opportunity as a bigger plus than not," he said.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations averts South Asian nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schaffer ‘2</span> [Spring 2002, Teresita Schaffer is the Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security. Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)
Washington's increased interest in India since the late 1990s reflects India's economic expansion and position
AND
people out of poverty depends critically on good relations with the United States.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Margolis, 2010 </span>
(Eric, International Author and Policy Analyst for New York Time and International Herald Tribune, “Kashmir: Three Minutes From Nuclear War”,
http://www.lewrockwell.com/margolis/margolis206.html)
In my first book, War at the Top of the World, which explores
AND
pollute all of Asia's major rivers and, eventually, the entire globe.


==1NC – T Physics Assets== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Transportation infrastructure” is delivery structures for goods and services</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Trimbath 9</span> (Dr. Susanne, Senior Research Economist in Capital Market Studies at Milken Institute, Senior Advisor – United States Chamber of Commerce, and Professor of Economics and Accounting – Bellvue University, “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the Way”, [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructur]] e/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf)
V. Paving the Way Forward
The strategy applied by the US Chamber of Commerce for the infrastructure performance index project presents a model for developing the way forward. <span style="font-size: 10pt;">A stakeholder-centric approach allows you to </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">measure the right things</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">, </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">communicate</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> to the people in a language they understand and </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">get to ACTION faster</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">. The process</span>, detailed in the Technical Report last summer (US Chamber 2010), <span style="font-size: 10pt;">is basically this:</span>
1. //<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Clearly</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;">define “transportation infrastructure” as the </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">underlying structures</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> that support the </span>//<span style="font-size: 12pt;">delivery</span>//<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> of inputs to places of production, goods and services to customers, and customers to marketplaces. The structures are:</span>
- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Transit</span>
- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Highways</span>
- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Airports</span>
- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Railways</span>
- Waterways (<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ports</span>)
- <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Intermodal Links</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Only targeting “hard”, physical objects is topical --- the Aff’s indirect approach unlimits</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cantarelli 10</span> (Chantal C., Faculty of Technology, Policy and Management – Delft University of Technology, et al., “Cost Overruns in Large-scale Transportation Infrastructure Projects: Explanations and Their Theoretical Embeddedness”, European Journal of Transport and Infrastructure Research, 10(1), March, p. 7)
We define transportation infrastructure projects as follows: ‘Transport infrastructures include roads, rail
AND
defined in this paper by a minimum cost level of 500 million euros.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Voting issue --- they expand the topic from “increasing” infrastructure to “altering” it through deregaulation, liberalization, or privatization --- makes Neg research impossible, especially because predictable ground assumes current methods</span>

==1NC – T Military (2NR)== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation infrastructure is limited to services that facilitate private economic activity—military action is excluded—prefer our evidence which uses the latest CBO definition</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Musick 10</span> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)

Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on two types
AND
U.S. economy) of the public sector's funding of infrastructure.
For the purposes of CBO's analysis, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">"transportation infrastructure" includes</span> the <span style="font-size: 10pt;">systems and facilities that support</span> the following types of activities:
■ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Vehicular transportation: highways, roads, bridges, and tunnels</span>;
■ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Mass transit</span> subways, buses, and commuter rail;
■ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rail transport</span> primarily the intercity service provided by Amtrak;*
■ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Civil aviation</span>: airport terminals, runways, and taxi-ways, and facilities and navigational equipment for air traffic control: and
■ <span style="font-size: 10pt;">Water transportation</span>: waterways, ports, vessel*, and navigational systems.
The category "water infrastructure" includes facilities that provide the following:
■ Water resources: containment systems, such as dams, levees, reservoirs, and watersheds; and sources of fresh water such as lakes and rivers; and
■ Water utilities: supply systems for distributing potable water, and wastewater and sewage treatment systems and plants.
Consistent with CBO'% previous reports on public spending for transportation and water infrastructure,
AND
those conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Vote negative</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">a. Limits—their interpretation justifies the government spending money on runways, roads, military ports, fueling stations OR procuring technology and machinery to move military resources on any installation in the world—that makes specific clash impossible and creates a race to terrible generics </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">b. Ground—core negative generics like politics, states CP, and the spending DA are centered around domestic economic infrastructure</span>

==1NC - Advantage CP== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Text: The United States Federal Government should make the following offer to the government of Iran: The Government of Iran will stop the enrichment of uranium and accept international monitoring of its nuclear facilities. In exchange, the United States Federal Government will back the creation of a nuclear fuel bank, lift sanctions on investment in Iran’s gasoline sector, agree not to support regime change in Iran, and cooperation to develop Iran’s civilian nuclear power sector. The United States federal government increase it’s MDA capabilities The United States federal government should adopt an “Off Shore Partnering” naval strategy as per our Hoffman evidence. </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">THE COUNTERPLAN IS THE BEST OPTION TO SOLVE PROLIF AND WOULD SPILL OVER TO SOLVE OTHER ISSUES</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CIRCIONE AND GROTTO 2007 </span>
(Joseph, Senior Fellow and Director for Nuclear Policy at the Center for American Progress and Andrew, Senior National Security Analyst at the Center for American Progress, “Contain and Engage: A New Strategy for Resolving the Nuclear Crisis with Iran,” Feb 28, http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/2007/02/iran_report.html)
The fourth option, to negotiate a “grand bargain” with Iran, is
AND
The chief goal of this policy is to end Iran’s uranium enrichment program.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MDA solves Africa terror</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Raidt et al. 10</span>
<span style="background-color: white;">(John Raidt, Director and Senior Fellow on the Horizon Project; Kristen E. Smith, Assistance Director of Michael S. Ansari Africa Center; Nancy J. Walker, Non-Resident Senior Fellow at the Michael S. Ansari Africa Center, The Atlantic Council. November 30, 2010. “Advancing U.S., African, and Global Interests: Security and Stability in the West Africa Maritime Domain,”)</span>
Maritime domain awareness (MDA), a key enabler of maritime security, is the
AND
generated from ship-borne identification beacons, coastal radar, and AIS.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CP solves their Navy advantage—allows foreign countries to maintain stability where US presence is lacking</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hoffman, ’08</span> [November 2008, From Preponderance to Partnership: American Maritime Power in the 21st Century, Frank Hoffman is a retired Marine officer with 30 years of experience in policy development, strategy and force analysis, and consulting, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/Hoffman_FromPreponderanceToPartnership_November2008_0.pdf]
Adapting the Maritime strategy and Naval Forces for an Interdependent World Our maritime forces should
AND
services to work with others to preserve and extend security via multilateral approaches.

==1NC Drones== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Naval decline inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Halperin, ‘10/29</span> [October 29, 2012, Mike Halperin, “America's Capsizing Naval Policy”, http://markhelprin.com/writings/2012/10/americas-capsizing-naval-policy]
To hold that numbers and mass in war are unnecessary is as dangerous as believing
AND
attend to the Navy, in quality, numbers, and without delay.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">New Chinese Dong-Feng missiles mean they can’t solve – Star this Card</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Talmadge, ‘10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Eric Talmadge, 8/8/10, Associated Press Writer, “Chinese aircraft-carrier-killing missile could end U.S. Pacific dominance”, [[http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html]]]</span>
ABOARD THE USS GEORGE WASHINGTON — Nothing projects U.S. global air and
AND
epoch of international order in which Beijing emerges to displace the United States."
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No naval conflicts now</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goure, ’10 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Daniel Vice President, Lexington Institute, 672/10, “Can The Case Be Made For Naval Power?” [[http://www.lexingtoninstitute.org/can-the-case-be-made-for-naval-power-?a=1&c=1171]]]</span>
This is no longer the case. The U.S. faces no great
AND
and commerce of other states in jeopardy, seem relatively unimportant in today’s world

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No risk of a terrorist attack inside the US</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mueller, 2006 (</span>John, Professor of political science at Ohio state University, “Is there still a terrorist threat?” Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct, Vol. 85, Issue 5)

Instead, Americans are told--often by the same people who had once predicted
AND
is not only American alarmists who are given to extravagant huffing and puffing.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No nuclear terror – Terrorists cant acquire, build, or deliver a bomb</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chapman ‘08</span>
Steve Chapman, reporter and editorial writer for Chicago Tribune, 2/8 2008 [RealClearPolitics, “The Implausibility of Nuclear Terrorism”

But remember: After Sept. 11, 2001, we all thought more attacks
AND
right. For us to escape, only one thing has to go wrong

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No WMD use – it’s counterproductive to political goals of terrorists</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pate & Dolnik., </span>20<span style="font-size: 12pt;">04</span>(Jason, Deputy Director of Chemical & Biological Weapons Non-Proliferation Programme Manager of the WMD Terrorist Project at CNS at MIIS, Adam, PhD Candidate at the IDSS in Singapore, "Mass Casualty Terrorism: Understanding the Threat of Bioterrorism." The Changing Face of Terrorism Edited by Rohan Gunatara, Page 108-109)

Besides the ability to acquire and weaponize lethal agents successfully, bioterrorists must also possess
AND
and punish the terrorists, and may thus jeopardize the group's very existence.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Expert consensus says terrorists do not have nukes and can’t get them</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Times, ‘10 </span>[4/14/10, Washington Post is a newspaper, “Critics: Obama Admin Hyping Terrorist Nuclear Risk”, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/apr/14/obama-says-terrorist-nuclear-risk-is-growing/?page=1]]]

The Obama administration is warning that the danger of a terrorist attack with nuclear weapons
AND
in Saudi Arabia was negotiating for the purchase of three Russian nuclear devices."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their representations of the savage terrorist and the “axis of evil” trying to acquire the bomb are reminiscent of the racist civilizational distinctions used throughout history to justify atrocity.</span>
Sharp, ‘7 [2007, Patrick B. Sharp, Chair, Department
AND
Savage Perils: Racial Frontiers and Nuclear Apocalypse in American Culture” pdf]
On 29 January 2002, President George W. Bush gave the first post-
AND
racist society that was built on the notion of civilized progress replacing savagery.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Racism must be rejected in EVERY INSTANCE without surcease. It justifies atrocities, creates another and is truly the CAPITAL SIN.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

==1NC B2 Bomber== 

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran will be extremely careful with nuclear weapons – they won’t get stolen or diverted to terrorists.</span>
Peter N. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson 06</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span>U.S. Navy Lieutenant, March 2006 [“The Sky is Not Falling: Regional Reaction to a Nuclear-Armed Iran,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis]
Tehran relies upon the IRGC to ensure regime survival. However, granting release authority
AND
to the argument that it will not change this policy for nuclear weapons.


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No risk of fast prolif in the Middle East – Lack of preexisting nuclear programs guarantee long timeframe.</span>
Jane's<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> Islamic Affairs Analyst, </span>September 01, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2007 </span>“An Islamic Nuclear Arms Race?”
Talk of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East underestimates the time it takes
AND
due to the time it takes to gather the consent of all participants.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No risk of Middle East arms race – This assumes anti-U.S. nations.</span>
Barry R. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Posen 06,</span>professor of political science at MIT, former Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Center for International Affairs at Harvard, former Council on Foreign Relations International Affairs Fellow, former Transatlantic Fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the US, PhD from UC-Berkeley, Editorial Board at Orbis and International Security, February 27, 2006, New York Times, “We Can Live With a Nuclear Iran,” http://www.nytimes.com/2006/02/27/opinion/27posen.html?_r=1&pagewanted=all
THE intense concern about Iran’s nuclear energy program reflects the judgment that, should it
AND
. But what about the notion that such weapons will facilitate Iranian aggression?

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their discourse on proliferation inscribes a racist and colonialist nuclear apartheid in which other countries are artificially denied nuclear weapons because they are less civilized </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gusterson ‘99</span>[February 1999, Hugh, American Anthropological Association, MIT; "Weapons and the Other in the Western Imagination": Cultural Anthropology, Vol. 14, No. 1, pp. 111-143; MUSE]
Thus in Western discourse nuclear weapons are represented so that "theirs" are a
AND
piece of ideological machin­ery that transforms anxiety-provoking ambiguities into secure dichotomies.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their Orientalist security rhetoric constructs the Middle East according to US interests – causes conflict.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bilgin, ‘4</span>**—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">assistant prof,IR, Bilkent U. PhD, IR, U Wales (Pinar, Whose ‘Middle East’? Geopolitical Inventions and Practices of Security, http://www.arts.yorku.ca/politics/ncanefe/docs/readings%20for%20the%20curious%20mind/Pinar%20Bilgin%20on%20Whose%20Middle%20East.pdf)</span>
The significance of conceiving the relationship between regions and security as mutually constitutive becomes more
AND
in the ‘Middle East’ as voiced by myriad non-state actors.

Iranian nuclearization promotes stable deterrence in the Middle East, solves multiple scenarios for regional war
Peter N. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson</span>, U.S. Navy Lieutenant, March <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>[“THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis]
Nuclear Optimists advocate a gradual increase in the number of nuclear states. They argue
AND
perception, however, is irrelevant, for Iran believes what it believes.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nuclearization would prevents Iran-Israeli war. </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson, 2006</span>
[Peter N. Madson, Lieutenant, United States Navy, Master’s degree in National Security Affairs, 3-6, “The Sky is Not Falling: Regional Reaction to a Nuclear Armed Iran,” http://oai.dtic.mil/oai/oai?verb=getRecord&metadataPrefix=html&identifier=ADA445779]
It is difficult to ascertain with any degree of certainty what will happen in the
AND
will be able to focus upon other matters, having gained greater security.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Iran won’t use nukes against Israel—deterrence and US retaliation checks</span>
Peter N. **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Madson</span>**, U.S. Navy Lieutenant, March **<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2006</span>**[“THE SKY IS NOT FALLING: REGIONAL REACTION TO A NUCLEAR-ARMED IRAN,” Naval Postgraduate School Thesis]
The gravity of a nuclear-armed Iran is being debated in Israel. Central
AND
it is even more unlikely to act afterward, risking potential nuclear retaliation.
=Round 4= 

==1AC Advantage—Economy== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 1 is the Economy</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Existing warming is irreversible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solomon et al ‘9</span> [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf<span style="font-size: 8pt;">]</span>
Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to
AND
magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Climate resilient infrastructure investment is </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">critical to maintain the recovery</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">prevent future economic collapse</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">—our evidence assumes your turns</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hendricks et. al. ‘4-18</span> [4/18/13, Bracken Hendricks and Cathleen Kelly are Senior Fellows at the Center for American Progress. Adam James is a Research Assistant for Energy Policy at the Center. “Infrastructure and Resilience: Forging a National Strategy for Reconstruction and Growth,” http://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/report/2013/04/18/60960/infrastructure-and-resilience-forging-a-national-strategy-for-reconstruction-and-growth/]
The president’s dual priorities to both repair our deteriorating infrastructure and develop solutions to climate
AND
it will get much worse before it gets better. America must act now
Global economic decline leads to miscalculation and crisis escalation—escalates
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris and Burrows, ‘09</span> [Mathew, PhD European History at Cambridge, counselor in the National Intelligence Council (NIC) and Jennifer, member of the NIC’s Long Range Analysis Unit “Revisiting the Future: Geopolitical Effects of the Financial Crisis” [[http://www.ciaonet.org/journals/twq/v32i2/f_0016178_13952.pdf]]]
Increased Potential for Global Conflict Of course, the report encompasses more than economics and
AND
within and between states in a more dog-eat-dog world.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Broad studies prove our argument</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal, ‘10</span> [2010, Jedediah Royal is the Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives”, ed. By Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]
Less intuitive is how periods of economic decline may increase the likelihood of external conflict
AND
such, the view presented here should be considered ancillary to those views.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth makes war impossible</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Boudreux, professor of economics, ‘06</span> [10/20/06, Donald J., Chair of the Economics Department at George Mason University, “Want World Peace? Support Free Trade”, November 20, [[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/1120/p09s02-coop.html]]]

During the past 30 years, Solomon Polachek, an economist at the State University
AND
are to seek, or even to tolerate, harm to these foreigners.
==1AC Advantage—Generic Leadership== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US climate leadership decimated by DOHA – plan key to galvanize action on warming </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Miao ’12 </span>[12/16/12, William Miao is a Yale Climate Institute Fellow, COP Fellow, Doha Talks Reporter, MEM Candidate @ The Yale School of Forestry and Environmental Studies. “OBAMA’S SECOND TERM – THE WORLD AWAITS MUCH NEEDED LEADERSHIP ON CLIMATE CHANGE,” December 16th 2012, http://environment.yale.edu/blog/2012/12/obamas-second-term-the-world-awaits-much-needed-leadership-on-climate-change/]
“We want our children to live in an America that […] isn’t threatened by
AND
given to the envoys, and no new commitment was seen in Doha.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US climate adaptation policy key to climate leadership—US actions allow for global adaptation dialogue—that restores US influence</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jacobs et al, ’10</span> [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
America’s climate choices regarding limiting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and adapting to climate
AND
, 2008; Bang et al., 2007; World Bank, 2010).
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to seriously fund adaptation kills the credibility of global efforts—US engagement is critical</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jacobs et al, ’10</span> [2010, Katharine L. Jacobs works at University of Arizona, and other members of the Panel on Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change; National Research Council, “Adapting to the Impacts of Climate Change”, http://www.nap.edu/catalog.php?record_id=12783]
Considering the Role of the United States in Global Adaptation Activities In fact, adaptation
AND
for a significant U.S. role in international climate change adaptation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Action on climate adaptation reverses the negative perception of US hard power and solves soft power</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joseph S. </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Nye</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Jr 20</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government, former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, Chair of the National Intelligence Council, and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Security Assistance, Science and Technology (Los Angeles Times, bhhsnormans.net)</span>
The Pentagon is the best resourced arm of the government, but there are limits
AND
United States managed to recover its soft power. It can happen again.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Soft power solves a laundry list of extinction threats, turns your war scenarios</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jervis ‘9</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [Robert Jervis is a Professor of International Politics at Columbia, “Unipolarity: A Structural Perspective,” World Politics, Muse, </span>
To say that the system is unipolar is not to argue that the unipole can
AND
American vision and believe that its leadership is benign. [End Page 211

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Independently, hegemony shorn of international support causes extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ikenberry ’02</span> [John Ikenberry, Professor of Geopolitics and Global Justice @ Georgetown, October 2002, "America's Imperial Ambition—Foreign Affairs, lexis]
Pitfalls accompany this neoimperial grand strategy, however. Unchecked U.S. power
AND
tend to trigger self-encirclement by their own overestimation of their power.

==1AC Advantage—Oil== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gulf Coast transportation infrastructure is vulnerable to the wrath of Isabel– destruction results in ripple effects throughout the US</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Savonis and Rosenzweig ‘8</span> [6/28/08, Michael J. Savonis is the Air Quality Team Leader of the Federal Highway Administration, Dr. Cynthia Rosenzweig is a Senior Research Scientist at NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies. “Coping with Climate Change: Gulf Coast Transportation and New York City Waterworks,” http://www.ametsoc.org/atmospolicy/ESSSSummaryPrint06272008.html]
Climate affects the design, construction, safety, operations, and maintenance of transportation
AND
, resilient, and cost-effective transportation network in the coming decades.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gulf coast transportation infrastructure is critical to national oil transportation and exports </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Savonis ‘8</span> [March/08, Michael J. Savonis is the Air Quality Team Leader of the Federal Highway Administration. Joanne R. Potter is an Editor at Cambridge Systematics. Virginia R Burkett is a scientific edcitor at the US Geological Survey. “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I,” [[http://www.climatescience.gov/Library/sap/sap4-7/final-report/sap4-7-final-all.pdf]]]
The central Gulf Coast study area’s transportation infrastructure is a robust network of multiple modes
AND
of these risks will help inform transportation managers as they plan future investments.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our internal link is huge – small disrupts destroy the entire supply chain</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rodrigue ’13</span> [4/11/13, Dr. Jean-Paul Rodrigue is a Professor at the Department of Global Studies and Geography at Hofstra University. “The Geography of Transport Systems, Third Edition,” http://people.hofstra.edu/geotrans/eng/ch9en/conc9en/ch9c5en.html]
Infrastructure and economic interdependency. Infrastructures are increasingly interdependent, particularly transportation and energy infrastructures
AND
as oil that require a continuous supply with limited margins to accommodate disruptions.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Oil shocks cause global nuclear war and accesses every impact – need for key resource makes conflict likely.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">King, ‘8 </span>[July 2008, Neil King Jr., Center for New American Security, CNAS Energy Security Visionaries Series, “Peak Oil: A Survey of Security Concerns” http://www.aspousa.org/aspousa4/proceedings/_CNAS_King_Peak_Oil_WorkingPaper.pdf]
Many commentators in the United States and abroad have begun to wrestle with the question
AND
oi cials seek out those who are to blame for the country’s travails.


=Round 5= 
==Contention 1 is the Status Quo== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">White supremacy is the unnamed political system that characterizes modernity and remains absent from discussions of our political system</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mills ‘97</span>[1997, Charles-; Associate Prof of Philosophy @ U Illinois, Chicago The Racial Contract; p. 1-3]
White Supremacy is the unnamed political system that has made the modern world what it
AND
talk is, after all, the political lingua franca of our times.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This is embedded in US </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">adaptation policy</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">—minorities disproportionately face the consequences of global warming, yet structural racism has made us reluctant to act</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pulido, ’13</span> [01/27/13, Laura Pulido is a Professor of American Studies and Ethnicity at the University of Southern California, “The Future is Now: Climate Change and Environmental Justice”, http://www.socialtextjournal.org/periscope/2012/01/the-future-is-now-climate-change-and-environmental-justice.php]
Clearly, Ross is urging us to see the connection between social inequality and sustainability
AND
dying of dehydration to know that an informal triage is already at work.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Status quo environmental justice efforts are overly focused on mitigation—moving adaptation to the forefront is critical to address environmental justice concerns</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wagner, ’12</span> [Spring 2012, Raina Wagner is J.D. Candidate with Certificate in Environmental Law, Science, & Policy, University of Arizona James E. Rogers College of Law, 2012.“ARTICLE: ADAPTING ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE: IN THE AGE OF CLIMATE CHANGE, ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE DEMANDS A COMBINED ADAPTATION-MITIGATION RESPONSE”, 2 Ariz. J. Envtl. L. & Pol'y 153, Lexis Nexis]
At this moment in 2012, cap and trade seems dead. The Waxman-
AND
, it is of paramount importance that adaptation projects move to the fore.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Renewing an investment in adaptation policy is critical to further climate justice</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kaswan, ’12</span> [December 2012, Alice Kaswan is Professor of Law, University of San Francisco School of Law., “Domestic Climate Change Adaptation and Equity”, University of San Francisco Law Research Paper No. 2013-05]
As Rob Verchick has stated eloquently in the disaster context: “Catastrophe is bad
AND
the harm after the fact—or suffer the consequences of irreparable devastation.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Transportation is specifically key—our infrastructure is not ready for climate change and imbedded racism means this </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bullard and Wright, ’05</span> [09/29/05, Robert D. Bullard directs the Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University and Wright directs the Deep South Center for Environmental Justice at Dillard University., “LEGACY OF UNFAIRNESS: WHY SOME AMERICANS GET LEFT BEHIND”, Environmental Justice Resource Center, [[http://www.ejrc.cau.edu/Exec%20Summary%20Legacy.html]]]
Transportation is a major component in any emergency preparedness and evacuation plan. However,
AND
and people of color who tend not to own cars and drivers licenses.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Climate resilient infrastructure is key—climate change is more than an environmental issue, it’s a </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">human rights</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> issue—investment in infrastructure creates jobs and redresses racist harms</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ellis-Lamkins, ’13</span> [03/03/13, Phaedra Ellis-Lamkins, “How Climate Change Affects People of Color”, http://www.theroot.com/views/how-climate-change-affects-people-color]
(Special to The Root) -- Chances are, if you are a person
AND
are a part of the business community and workforce building these new systems.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">You should reject racism</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Memmi ’00 </span>[2000, Albert is a Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165]
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Prefer our impact arguments over their DA—the construction of national security threats to justify not investing in our domestic infrastructure is the decision calculus of the status quo that allows populations to be disposed of—refuse it for the aff</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Graham, ‘06</span> [06/11/06, Stephen Graham is professor of human geography at Durham University in the UK. He is co-author of Telecommunications and the City and Splintering Urbanism and editor of The Cybercities Reader and Cities, War and Terrorism, “Cities Under Siege,” http://understandingkatrina.ssrc.org/Graham/]
Secondly, and relatedly, the Katrina disaster revealed the stark politics that surround ‘
AND
there are other big things – even bigger things – than al Qaeda”.

In the search for the best policy option we must prioritize human security concerns
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Porter, ’06</span>—prof & head of the School of Intl Studies @ University of South Australia[Elisabeth J Porter is a Professor and head of the School of international Studies at the University of South Australia, “Can Politics Practice Compassion?,” Hypatia 21.4 (2006) 97-123, Muse]
Particularly in the current global climate of heightened vulnerability to terrorist attacks, the need
AND
of cultural and religious differences is central to the practice of political compassion.


==Contention 2 is the Debate== 
The dominance of security and the ignorance of human security replicates itself in the way discussions of climate change happen

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Current climate risks are framed from an overly technical perspective that ignores societal distributions of its impacts—a discussion of environmental injustices is critical</span>
Moser and Dilling 2007 (Susanne Moser is a research scientist at the National Center
AND
Change and Facilitating Social Change,” Cambridge University Press, Pg 130 Mkoo)
Risk communication research over the past two decades despite the findings of Mohai (2004
AND
issue affecting predominantly the poor and communities of color, such as Roxbury.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Discussion of the environment that ignore its racist implications destroys the effectiveness of broader coalitions and ensures racial marginalization </span>
Tim <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wise</span> April 13th <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2011</span> Tim Wise and White Privilege [[http://changefromwithin.org/2011/04/13/tim-wise-and-white-privilege/]] [Wise served as an adjunct faculty member at the Smith College School for Social Work, in Northampton, Massachusetts, where he co-taught a Master’s level class on Racism in the U.S. In 2001, Wise trained journalists to eliminate racial bias in reporting, as a visiting faculty-in-residence at the Poynter Institute in St. Petersburg, Florida. From 1999-2003, Wise was an advisor to the Fisk University Race Relations Institute, in Nashville, and in the early ’90s he was Youth Coordinator and Associate Director of the Louisiana Coalition Against Racism and Nazism: the largest of the many groups organized for the purpose of defeating neo-Nazi political candidate, David Duke. He graduated from Tulane University in 1990 and received antiracism training from the People’s Institute for Survival and Beyond, in New Orleans.]
But as troubling as colorblindness can be when evinced by liberals, colormuteness may be
AND
color and their concerns, but is to weaken the fight for survival.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our advocacy for adaptation from the frame of human security is critical to shift the debates to promote forms of adaptation that are critical to redress existing structural violence</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Tschakert and Machado, ‘12</span> [2012, Petra Tschakert and Mario Machado, “Gender Justice and Rights in Climate Change Adaptation: Opportunities and Pitfalls”, Ethics and Social Welfare Volume 6 Number 3 (September 2012)]
So far, we have argued that the most significant gaps in research on gender
AND
enterprise (the free market) as the ultimate expression of its mantra.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This matters—discussions of adaptation in </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">democratic forums</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> are critical to shift debates over climate change away from dominant expert dominated paradigms</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hilde, ’12</span> [10/22/12, Thomas C. Hilde, School of Public Policy, University of Maryland, College Park, USA, “Uncertainty and the epistemic dimension of democratic deliberation in climate change adaptation”, Democratization, Volume 19, Issue 5, 2012, pages 889-911]
Democracy is not solely a means for treating each other as equals, ideally,
AND
indeed it requires – learning when and where to seek expert knowledge.58


=Round 6 - GBN DM (Forestry Service)= 
==1NC – Immigration DA== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform is likely in the status quo, but not certain—Obama’s </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">charm</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> offensive is critical via bipartisan cooperation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dennis, ‘4/19</span> [04/19/13, Steven T. Dennis, Roll Call, “Gun Loss Shouldn't Deter Obama Charm Offensive, Republicans Say”, http://www.rollcall.com/news/gun_loss_shouldnt_deter_obama_charm_offensive_say_republicans-224181-1.html]
Several Republican senators say President Barack Obama should keep up his charm offensive despite seeing
AND
in last year’s elections and their interest in avoiding a repeat in 2014.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The aff </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">spoils</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> the mood of bipartisan cooperation—transportation bills create interparty fights and disagreements</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Freemark ’12</span> [Yonah, Master of Science in Transportation from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; Bachelor of Arts in Architecture, Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Yale University with Distinction. Also a freelance journalist who has been published in Planning Magazine; Next American City Magazine; Dissent; The Atlantic Cities; Next American City Online; and The Infrastructurist – He created and continues to write for the website The Transport Politic – The Transport Politic – “On Infrastructure, Hopes for Progress This Year Look Glum” – January 25th, 2012 – http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/2012/01/25/on-infrastructure-hopes-for-progress-this-year-look-glum/]
President Obama barely mentions the need for improvements in the nation’s capital stock in his
AND
more than replicate the existing law, perhaps with a few bureaucratic reforms.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bipartisanship is key—the state of negotiations matter</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Fabian, ‘13</span> [01/30/13, Jordan Fabian, “Obama Confident Immigration Reform Passes This Year,” [[http://abcnews.go.com/ABC_Univision/Politics/president-obama-confident-immigration-reform-passes-year/story?id=18358660]]]
President Barack Obama expressed confidence on Wednesday that he would sign comprehensive immigration reform into
AND
security is a precondition for gaining legal permanent residence, and then citizenship.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Comprehensive reform is critical—anything less fails—the impact is US competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alberts, ‘1/25</span> [01/25/13, Sheldon Alberts, “Jeb Bush: Piecemeal immigration reform is 'shortsighted and self-defeating'”, http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/279249-jeb-bush-piecemeal-immigration-reform-is-qshortsighted-and-self-defeatingq#ixzz2REYtjeKb]
Former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush says efforts to tackle immigration reform on a piecemeal
AND
, we will be increasingly unable to compete,” Bush and Bolick write.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Great power war</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Baru, ‘9</span> [March 2009, Sanjaya Barus is visiting Professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public Policy in Singapore Geopolitical Implications of the Current Global Financial Crisis, Strategic Analysis, Volume 33, Issue 2 March 2009, pages 163 – 168]
Hence, economic policies and performance do have strategic consequences. In the modern era
AND
they will do so once again in today's America remains to be seen.

==1NC – Advantage CP (2NR)== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The united states federal government should institute legislation that bans ethanol and environmental litigation related to forests. The Federal Forestry Service should establish stewardship contracts for restoring ecosystems and removing forest fires</span>
==1NC – Race K== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The rhetoric of pluralist reform helps protect and maintain stability for black suffering that underwrites the foundation of the US—their legislative antics help civil society maintain legitimacy at the expense of Indians and Blacks</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Wilderson, ’10</span> [2010, Frank B. Wilderson is an Associate Professor of African-American Studies at UC Irvine and has a Ph.D. from UC Berkeley, “Red, White & Black: Cinema and the Structure of U.S. Antagonisms,”]
The difficulty of writing a book which seeks to uncover Red, Black, and
AND
. But this stability is a state of emergency for Indians and Blacks.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Their silence on racism causes it</span>
DR. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">CRENSHAW</span> Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. <span style="font-size: 12pt;">1997</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION</span>
This analysis of Helms’ opening argument illustrates how the ideology of white privilege operates through
AND
of whiteness like Helms’ protect material white privilege because they mask its existence.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Reject racism in every instance</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MEMMI </span>Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>, Albert-; RACISM, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
The struggle against racism will be long, difficult, without intermission, without remission
AND
. True, it is a wager, but the stakes are irresistible.

==1NC – Decentralization DA (2NR)== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Unique link—the lack of federal transportation investment is pushing it towards </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">greater decentralization</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> now—the plan </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">reverses</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> this trend</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Jaffe, ’13</span> [03/11/13, Eric Jaffe is a contributing writer to The Atlantic Cities and the author of The King's Best Highway: The Lost History of the Boston Post Road, the Route That Made America, “The End of Federal Transportation Funding as We Know It”, http://www.theatlanticcities.com/politics/2013/03/its-end-federal-transportation-funding-we-know-it/4931/]
Today the federal transportation program faces perhaps its greatest challenge since that shaky start.
AND
is not sufficiently wonderful that we should fight to make sure it remains."

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US decentralized economic development strategies get </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">modeled</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> and integrated into international development agencies strategies </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schragger, ’10</span> [11/17/2010, Richard C. Schragger is a Professor of Law, University of Virginia School of Law., “Decentralization And Development”, Virginia Law Review, Vol. 96:1837:2010, http://www.virginialawreview.org/content/pdfs/96/1837.pdf]
DOES federalism promote economic development? A significant body of scholarship asserts that more decentralized
AND
this idea has become a staple of law reform at the international level.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That’s critical to Arab Spring state legitimacy—decentralized development strategies by international agencies are critical to address popular concerns</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Ben-Meir, ’12</span> [09/15/12, Alon Ben-Meir is a professor of international relations at the Center for Global Affairs at NYU. He teaches courses on international negotiation and Middle Eastern studies, “Sustainable Economic Development: Central To The Durability Of Political Reforms In Arab States”, http://www.politicalaffairs.net/sustainable-economic-development-central-to-the-durability-of-political-reforms-in-arab-states/]
There is a pressing need in the Arab states, especially the countries with nascent
AND
(based on advice and consent), the basis of democracy is developed.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That causes escalatory regional nuclear proliferation</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Carroll, ’11</span> [12/05/11, James Carroll, “A Nuclear-Free Middle East Starts at Home”, http://www.bostonglobe.com/opinion/2011/12/05/nuclear-free-middle-east-starts-home/I1CRHnfd7gFHw47npc13zL/story.html]
WHAT’S THAT sound? A recent print advertisement shows a rower wearing noise-canceling
AND
encourage the long-term transformation of nuclear have-nots into haves.

==1NC Legitimacy== 
Democracy increases war – democratic regime change spurs global conflict.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Henderson</span>, Associate Professor of Political Science at Wayne State University, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2002</span> (Errol, //Democracy and War: The End of an Illusion?// pp.68-70)

My findings refute the monadic level DPP, which suggests that democracies are more peaceful
AND
a sanguine view of the prospects for peace with a democratic enlargement strategy.
No democratic peace – spread of democracy will increase intra-bloc conflict – their evidence doesn’t assume changes to the international system.
Erik <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gartzke and</span> Alex <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weisiger</span>, Associate Professor of Political Science at University of California San Diego and Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania, March 15, <span style="font-size: 12pt;">2010</span>, “Permanent Friends? Dynamic Difference and the Democratic Peace,” http://dss.ucsd.edu/~egartzke/papers/impermanent_012010.pdf
We can go farther in assessing implications of regime similarity in varied circumstances. As
AND
may increasingly find that they are unable to justify glossing over their differences.

==1NC Biomass== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Humans are isolated from the environment by technology – no mass extinction in the past has been caused by species</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Powers</span>, August 9, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">2</span> Lawrence W., Professor of Natural Sciences Oregon Institute of Technology “Humans, Alas, May Survive the Next Mass Extinction”

Mass extinctions appear to result from major climatic changes or catastrophes, such as
AND
Boulter mourns we will no longer behold vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Genetic diversity is resilient.</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Harris 01 </span>[Jonathan, Tufts University Global Development and Environment Institute, A Survey of Sustainable Development, p 132-3]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Has the World not Collapsed Long Ago? </span>
AND
is not unlimited, and human adaptability is limited by specific environmental contexts.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food price shocks inevitable</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Voice of America 7/9 </span>(“US Drought Could Trigger Higher Food Prices”, July 9th, 2012, http://www.voanews.com/content/us-drought-could-trigger-higher-food-prices/1381476.html)//chm

World food prices are likely to rise in the coming months in the wake of
AND
the same scenario until serious efforts are made to meet the growing demands.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food wars are a myth – there’s zero empirical evidence</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Salehyan 7</span> (Idean, Professor of Political Science – University of North Texas, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, Summer, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922)

First, aside from a few anecdotes, there is little systematic empirical evidence that
AND
there is much more to armed conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters.

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No shortages – food is abundant</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Poole 6</span> (Holly Kavana, Institute for Food and Development Policy, “12 Myths About Hunger”, Backgrounder, 12(2), Summer, 4-9, http://www.foodfirst.org/12myths)

Myth 1: Not Enough Food to Go Around Reality: Abundance, not scarcity
AND
right now. Many are net exporters of food and other agricultural products.

==1NC Forest Firees== 
Environment has small if any impact on conflicts – Prefer this evidence. It indicts their authors and has empirical data.
Jack <span style="font-size: 12pt;">Goldstone 02, </span>prof. of public policy, George Mason, Population and Security: How Demographic Change Can Lead to Violent Conflict, Journal of International Affairs, Fall2002, Vol. 56 Ebsco
Homer-Dixon provoked a great deal of controversy and concern with his claim that
AND
in international trade, no direct impact of environmental variables could be found.
Environmental catastrophes are hype and lies – Statistics go our way.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dutton 01</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> - </span>prof of philosophy @ U of Canterbury [Dennis Dutton. “Greener Thank You Think. ‘The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World' by Bjorn Lomborg.” The Washington Post. October 21, 2001.]

That the human race faces environmental problems is unquestionable. That environmental experts have regularly
AND
typographical errors had been absorbed unchallenged into the folklore of environmental disaster scenarios.
The environment is resilient – It has withstood ridiculous amounts of destruction.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Easterbrook 95,</span>Distinguished Fellow, Fullbright Foundation (Gregg, A Moment on Earth pg 25) MI

In the aftermath of events such as Love Canal or the Exxon Valdez oil spill
AND
are pinpricks compared to forces of the magnitude nature is accustomed to resisting.

No species snowball – Ecosystems are resilient
Roger A<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sedjo 2k,</span>Sr. Fellow, Resources for the Future, Conserving Nature’s Biodiversity: insights from biology, ethics & economics, eds. Van Kooten, Bulte and Sinclair, p 114
As a critical input into the existence of humans and of life on earth,
AND
the value of the marginal unit of biodiversity appears to be very small.
Impact is small – Scientists confirm.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stevens 91</span>–Journalist of the New York Times [William K. , “Species Loss: Crisis or False Alarm,” New York Times. August 20,. http://query.nytimes.com/gst/fullpage.html?res= 9D0CE1D61E3EF933A1575BC0A967958260&sec=&spon=&pagewanted=all] AP
While species constitute a "valuable endowment" and should be protected, there is
AND
far more certain pursuit than predicting the future of species, he said.
We control the uniqueness. It’s impossible to alter the oxygen concentration of the Earth. Vegetation doesn’t affect it. If they solve the advantage, they cause oxygen poisoning and global forest fires.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPPI</span>, August 18, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span> Science and Public Policy Institute, “Oxygen Scarcity Threatens Humankind”
The truth: Dr. Roy Spencer, of the University of Alabama at Huntsville
AND
is an impending ‘oxygen crisis’ on Earth is the epitome of fearmongering.”
No linear impact, no extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SPPI</span>, August 18, 200<span style="font-size: 12pt;">8</span> Science and Public Policy Institute, “Oxygen Scarcity Threatens Humankind”
“At any rate, you see that the oxygen level couldn’t have decreased
AND
point mentioned by Tatchell – says absolutely nothing about the overall O2 volume.

Air pollution has tons of causes – Plan fails.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brook et al 04</span> M.D. and several other doctors writing for Circulation magazine from the American Heart Association [Circulation magazine Robert D. Brook, “Air Pollution and the Cardiovascular Disease” June 1, 2004, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/109/21/2655#SEC1/|http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/109/21/2655#SEC1/]]</span>] k ward

A brief description of several individual air pollutants is provided first for background. A
AND
(eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).

Pollution doesn't increase morbidity – At worse it shortens lives by a day.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schwartz 03</span>Scholar @ Competitive Enterprise Institute [Joel Schwartz, “Particulate Air Pollution: weighing the risks” April [[http://cei.org/pdf/3452.pdf/]]] Kevin W. Prep ‘11

Studies that have attempted to estimate directly when death occurs in relation to increases in
AND
levels, might be enough to cause death in very frail people.116



=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]