[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 

=Negative= 
==Sorcery 1NC== 
**The affirmative’s logic structure is representative of the enlightenment – weigh the impacts, technolize and rationalize all of reality, rid yourself of magical fantasies and be a realist. This is the path of stagnate thought. This belief has killed mankind’s progress and leaves us as white collar slaves. Embrace the magic in the world.**
**Delpech-Ramey 10** (Joshua, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science at Harvard University and Ph.D in Philosophy from Villanova University “Deleuze, Guattari and the ‘Politics of Sorcery’” SubStance Volume 39, Number 1, Issue 121 2010 page 8) NIJ
On the first page of The Dialectic of Enlightenment, Adorno and Horkheimer¶ define
AND
to allow for the possibility of a magical¶ rapport with the world?

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**This traditional academic debate has lied to you. It’s fed you the idea that chaos has died, but we are sorcerers and we are here to tell you that this, is a fundamental untruth. This lie has nurtured distrust and stagnated our ability to act.**</span>
**Bey 7** (Hekim, American anarchist political and cultural writer, essayist, poetic terrorist “T.A.Z.: The Temporary Autonomous Zone, Ontological Anarchy, Poetic Terrorism” pg. 3-4 http://taitcoles.files.wordpress.com/2013/05/taz.pdf DA: 2013-6-18) NIJ
CHAOS NEVER DIED. Primordial uncarved block, sole worshipful monster, inert & spontaneous
AND
you with inattention, bored you with civilization & all its usurious emotions.

**By engaging in the symbolic figure of the sorcerer we challenge the idea of psychical separation and blur the lines of history and legend. We spur Becomings – it is the sorcerer who transverses the boundaries of Being.**
**Delpech-Ramey 10** (Joshua, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science at Harvard University and Ph.D in Philosophy from Villanova University “Deleuze, Guattari and the ‘Politics of Sorcery’” SubStance Volume 39, Number 1, Issue 121 2010 page 10-11) NIJ
Becoming, for Deleuze and Guattari, is neither the immanent mode¶ of existence
AND
finds itself capable of powers and¶ affects outside the normal range.4

<span style="line-height: 1.5;">**The Becoming that sorcery enables prevents the sedentary thought that lies at the heart of psychoanalysis – this is key to freeing desire.**</span>
**Genosko 01** (Gary, Professor of Philosophy at University of Ontario Institute of Technology “Deleuze and Guattari: Critical Assessments of Leading Philosophers” 2001 pg 1418-1419 DA: 2013-7-28) NIJ
In trying to define the conceptual landscape of modernity. Deleuze goes back to the
AND
monolithic image of the self that rests on the phallo-logocentric system.

**The affirmative logic is the same as that of psychoanalysis; it’s the sedentary thought that’s been around for centuries. It causes the subject to be insane and guilty and it paralyzes our desires. The impact is the annihilation of self.**
**Deleuze and Guattari 72** (Gilles, Sorcerer, Philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Paris VIII; Pierre-Félix, Sorcerer, Philosopher, Semiologist, Psychotherapist “Anti-Oedipus” 1972 pg 50) NIJ
Is it possible that, by taking the path that it has, psychoanalysis is
AND
no effort to do¶ away with this problem once and for all.

**The sorcerer is the creator of the symbols we use for explanations – words too limited, rules too simplified – it is the symbol of sorcery which we use to create monstrous new hybrids that challenge existing political structures and break out of sedentary thought within the pack that we call debate.**
**Delpech-Ramey 10** (Joshua, Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science at Harvard University and Ph.D in Philosophy from Villanova University “Deleuze, Guattari and the ‘Politics of Sorcery’” SubStance Volume 39, Number 1, Issue 121 2010 page 17-19) NIJ
Deleuze’s essay, “Mathesis, Science, and Philosophy,” appeared in¶ 1946
AND
on a¶ new direction in order to deepen symbiotic and synthetic possibilities.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]