[[toc]]
=Round 1= 

NDCA Airports AFF on normal wiki (<span style="line-height: 1.5;">http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/Bishop+Guertin+DI+-+Affirmative%C2%A0#Affirmative-Airports AFF-1AC NDCA)</span>

=Round 2= 
==T== 
**A. Interpretation—infrastructure is fixed, permanent equipment**
**GAO 98** – U.S. General Accounting Office (“Best Practices: Elements Critical to Successfully Reducing Unneeded RDT&E Infrastructure: Report to Congressional Requesters,” GAO Website, Jan. 1998, http://www.gao.gov/assets/160/156058.pdf)
DoD generally defines infrastructure as “all fixed and permanent, installations, fabrications, or facilities … processes, such as equipment and instrumentation, processes and procedures, and software tools.


**B. Violation—the affirmative invests in vehicles, which are distinct**
**CFST, 6** – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)
Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and … on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.


==Neoliberal Spatialization K (2nr)== 
**The AFF’s isolation of conflict to specific places like the arctic papers over the violence of neoliberalism while simultaneously generating a self-fulfilling prophecy of threats that justify neoliberalisms continued dominance and make war and violence inevitable.**
**Springer, 11**
/Simon, Department of Geography, University of Otago, New Zealand, “Violence sits in places? Cultural practice, neoliberal rationalism, and virulent imaginative geographies”, Political Geography 30 (2011) 90-98/
The idea that violence might be integral to cultural … woven between, within, and across places in ways that facilitate and (re)produce violence.


**Neoliberalism is the driving force of all scenarios for human extinction.**
**Deutsch, 9**
/Judith, president, Science for Peace. Member of Canadian psychoanalytic society, “Pestilence, Famine, War, Neoliberalism, and Premature Deaths,” Peace Magazine, [[http://peacemagazine.org/archive/v25n3p18.htm]]/
At present, threats to human existence come from at least four directions: climate change … weapons development, and thinly disguised reliance on threatened use."


**We must refuse the affirmative politics of neoliberalism to reclaim the space of debate as anarchic form of perpetual criticism. The anarchic space provided by the alternative is a form of non-violence which prevents power from manifesting in the static and hierarchal relations of neoliberalism.**
**Springer, 11**
/Simon, Department of Geography, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand, “Public Space as Emancipation: Meditations on Anarchism, Radical Democracy, Neoliberalism and Violence,” Antipode, Vol. 43 No. 2 (2011) ISSN 0066-4812, pp 525–562/
When a society lacks a dynamic public space that allows for agonistic confrontation among … without end. Such is the promise of public space.

==Sphere of Influence Turn== 
**US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation**
**Eyal, 10** (Jonathan Eyal, reporter for the China Post; “U.S., Russia truly committed to improving their relations,” 6/26/2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm)
Yet the meeting between the Russian and American … mere fraction of the total value of America's trade with China, a figure which is 15 times larger.

==Case K's== 
**Fears of Russia are fundamental to colonizing Orientalism**
**Booker and Juraga 5**
Cold War Literature: Writing the Global Conflict M. Keith Booker is Professor and Director of Graduate Studies in the Department of English at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, USA. He has published numerous articles and more than two dozen books on modern literature, culture and literary theory. These include The African Now/ in English (1998), Monsters, Mushroom Clouds and tlx Cold War: American Science Fiction and the Roots oj Postmodernism. 1946-1964 (2001) and Tire Post-Utopian Imagination: American Culture in the Long 1950s (2002).
The centrality or history m both Soviet and African novels arises from a … was necessary to counter the menace of Russian expansionism.30

**Descriptions of Russian danger are constructed and reproduce a self/other distinction - their dream of total security becomes total violence**
**Jaeger 2000**
Øyvind Jæger, @ Norweigian Institute of International Affairs and the Copenhagen Peace Research Institute, 2k [Peace and Conflict Studies 7.2, “Securitizing Russia: Discoursive Practice of the Baltic States,” [[http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18|http://shss.nova.edu/pcs/journalsPDF/V7N2.pdf#page=18]]]
The Russian war on Chechnya is one event that was widely … on the state inside resisting the privileged identity as the subversive errand boys of the prime external enemy.

**Their econ impact justifies imperialist lashout to remake the world in the image of market liberalization**
**Lipschutz ‘95**, Professor of Politics at UC Santa Cruz, On Security, pg 15-17)
Consider, then, the consequences of the intersection of security policy and economics … the world changed too much for this to happen again?

**The neoliberal trope of wars over the economy justifies invisible extermination in the name of stability**
**Neocleous ‘8** (Mark, Prof. of Government at Brunel, Critique of Security)
In other words, the new international order moved very quickly to reassert the … intimately bound up with national identity and thus the politics of loyalty.

=Round 3= 

NDCA Airports AFF on normal wiki (http://wiki.debatecoaches.org/Bishop+Guertin+DI+-+Affirmative%C2%A0#Affirmative-Airports AFF-1AC NDCA)

=Round 4= 

Terrorism - Baudrillard

=Round 5= 
==**T**== 
**A. Interpretation—Investment is capital spending on infrastructure’s physical capital**
**CBO, 9** – Congressional Budget Office (“Subsidizing Infrastructure Investment with Tax-Preferred Bonds”, October, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/106xx/doc10667/10-26-taxpreferredbonds.pdf)
In this analysis, investment in infrastructure is defined as … by spending on educational programs or on research and development

**B. Violation—the affirmative is financing not investment—they raise capital for the purpose of investment but don’t invest**
**Chan, et al., 9** (March 2009, Chris Chan, Danny, Forwood, Heather Roper, Chris Sayers, “Public Infrastructure Financing: An International Perspective”, [[http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0008/86930/public-infrastructure-financing.pdf]])
The study is concerned with financing public …the project itself satisfies the criteria of allocative efficiency

==Metaphysics K== 
**The affirmative’s hegemonic subjectivity relies on western conceptions of the end of history**
**Spanos 2k** (William V., Prof. of Comparative Lit @ Suny-Binghamton, America’s Shadow, pgs. xvii-xviii)
This accommodational strategy of representation, for example, is epitomized by … extends from de Tocqueville through Frederick Jackson Turner to Fukuyama and Haass.

**This metaphysical grounding justifies extermination and makes their epistemology suspect**
**Spanos 5** (William Spanos, professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, “Humanism and Studia Humanitatis after 9/11/01: Rethinking the Anthropologos,” published in symploke volume 13 number 1-2)
In 1991, following the disintegration and demise of the Soviet Union and its … its anthropological structure remains invisible.

**The alternative is the judge should vote negative to embrace ontological exile – only a rethinking of thinking itself can break the shackles of Western hegemonic dominance**
**Spanos 2k** (William Spanos, professor of English and comparative literature at Binghamton University, 2000, “America’s Shadow: An Anatomy of Empire,” page 192-3)
Reconstellated into the context of this Heideggerian diagnosis of mo­dernity, the … American culture's inordinate will to forget it — that provides the directives for this most difficult of tasks not impossible.

**The attempt to raise their decision to the level of metaphysics causes violence and turns the case**
**Dillon 99** (Michael Dillon, professor of international relations at the University of Lancaster, PhD in philosophy, April 1999, “Another Justice,” published in Political Theory Volume 27 Number 2, page 157-8)
I wish to argue, in addition, that the condition of being-in-… of Time and the interpretation of the Human. Each of these derives from what I call the return of the ontological in continental thought.

==Case Ks== 
**The AFF’s isolation of conflict to specific places papers over the violence of neoliberalism while simultaneously generating a self-fulfilling prophecy of threats that justify neoliberalism’s continued dominance and make war and violence inevitable**
**Springer, 11**
/Simon, Department of Geography, University of Otago, New Zealand, “Violence sits in places? Cultural practice, neoliberal rationalism, and virulent imaginative geographies”, Political Geography 30 (2011) 90-98/
The idea that violence might be integral to cultural practice is¶ difficult to accept. In … frameworks, like neoliberalism, are woven between, within, and across places in ways that facilitate and (re)produce violence.

**Their econ impact justifies imperialist lashout to remake the world in the image of market liberalization**
**Lipschutz ‘95**, Professor of Politics at UC Santa Cruz, On Security, pg 15-17)
Consider, then, the consequences of the intersection of security … changed too much for this to happen again?

**The neoliberal trope of wars over the economy justifies invisible extermination in the name of stability**
**Neocleous ‘8** (Mark, Prof. of Government at Brunel, Critique of Security, AM)
In other words, the new international order moved very quickly to reassert the connection … a security apparatus intimately bound up with national identity and thus the politics of loyalty.

==They read some Baudrillard cards which were on paper...so...== 

=Round 6= 

same aff

=Round 7= 
==T== 
**A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance**
**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”, http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/)
What has been neglected in all of the analyses that I have seen … budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.

==Neolib K (same as r2)== 
==Dedev== 
**Economic growth is unsustainable – resource scarcity, land use, global warming, and overconsumption**
**Trainer, 7** – Visiting Fellow in the Faculty of Arts at the University of NSW (Ted, “We can't go on living like this”, http://www.onlineopinion.com.au/author.asp?id=1973)
Several lines of argument lead to this conclusion, but I’ll note … 60 times as great as it is now. Yet the present level is grossly unsustainable.

**Collapse is critical to solve warming**
**The University of Utah, 9** (Cites study by Tim Garrett, an associate professor of atmospheric sciences, “Is global warming unstoppable?” November 22, http://www.unews.utah.edu/p/?r=112009-1)
Nov. 22, 2009 - In a provocative new study, a University of Utah scientist argues that … to change the future course of civilization."

**Rapid tipping points mean warming will cause extinction quickly**
**Hansen ‘9**, heads the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NASA|NASA]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Goddard_Institute_for_Space_Studies|Goddard Institute for Space Studies]] and [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professors_in_the_United_States#Adjunct_professor|adjunct professor]] in the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Columbia_University|Columbia University]] (James, December, Storms of My Grandchildren, ix)
Planet Earth, creation, the world in which civilization developed, the world with … ice sheets and glaciers, and release of frozen methane as tundra melts. These and other science matters will be clarified in due course.

**Economic growth causes war, collapse has no impact**
**Boehmer, 10** (Charles R., Associate Professor of Political Science at the University of Texas El Paso, “Economic Growth and violent international conflict: 1875-1999,” Defence and Peace Economics, Volume 21, Issue 3, June)
The theory set forth earlier theorizes that economic growth increases perceptions of state … from growth. If conflicts do present themselves, then China may be more likely to escalate a war given its recent national performance.

==Case Ks== 
**The affirmative’s discourse of North Korean aggression creates a geopolitical Dr Evil irrationally attempting to destroy the world – these problematic representations inflicts mass structural violence on North Korean civilians, marked as “cannibals,” “baby-killers,” and “drones” and justifies international coercion, forcing threat actualization**
**Cunningham 3/13** (Finian Cunningham, expert in international affairs specializing in the Middle East, former journalist expelled from Bahrain due to his revealing of human rights violations committed by the Western-backed regime, 3-13-13, “Western Media Set Up North Korea for War,” http://nsnbc.me/2013/03/13/western-media-set-up-north-korea-for-war/) gz
Western so-called news media coverage of the escalating … nation that threatens no-one. Truly, Western imperialist reality is more perverse and sick than the Western fiction.

**Representations of China as a threat ignore the normative value-judgments inherent to the process of claiming to empirically know Chinese national and political identity—this makes security threats self-fulfilling prophecies**
**Pan, 4** – PhD in Political Science and International Relations and member of the International Studies Association ISA (Chengxin Pan: “The "China threat" in American self-imagination: the discursive construction of other as power politics”, Alternatives RC)
China and its relationship with the United States has long … Strait missile crisis and the 2001 spy-plane incident.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]