[[toc]]
=<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Round 1 v. Kinkaid RT</span>= 
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> TRIP CP</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The United States federal government should issue Transportation and Regional Infrastructure Project (TRIP) bonds sufficient to</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">substantially increase its investment in equitable mass transit infrastructure in the United States.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">TRIP bonds solve best and avoid fiscal fights</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Holtz-Eakin ‘12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Douglas Holtz-Eakin academic, policy adviser, and strategist,President of the American Action Forum and recently was Commissioner on the Congressionally-chartered Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission American Action Forum “TRIP bonds and national infrastructure needs” 2/7/2012 [[http://americanactionforum.org/topic/trip-bonds-and-national-infrastructure-needs]] KG)</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Using these lessons of economic history as a metric, how do the proposed TRIP bonds stand up?... U.S. for transportation infrastructure investment. </span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Counterplan is mode-neutral making it more flexible and efficient than the plan, and avoids normal means debt explosion.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Holtz-Eakin ‘12</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">(Douglas Holtz-Eakin academic, policy adviser, and strategist,President of the American Action Forum and recently was Commissioner on the Congressionally-chartered Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission American Action Forum “TRIP bonds and national infrastructure needs” 2/7/2012 [[http://americanactionforum.org/topic/trip-bonds-and-national-infrastructure-needs]] KG)</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 9pt;">The United States faces dual problems of subpar …key infrastructure needs not easily identified by a national approach </span>



==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Immigration Reform</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">CIR will pass – G of 8 knows what it’s doing</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Brown, 4-25</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">(4-25-13. Carrie Brown is a White House reporter who focuses on the intersection of policy and politics in the administration and on Capitol Hill. “70+ votes for immigration reform?” [[http://www.politico.com/story/2013/04/leaders-at-least-70-votes-for-immigration-reform-90626.html?hp=f1]]) Henge</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The two lead…</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> “I wouldn’t go that far,” drawing laughs.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Backlash to the plan diminishes key political will in other areas of legislation like CIR</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Hirsh ‘13</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Michael Hirsh, “There’s No Such Thing as Political Capital,” National Journal, 2/7/2013,[[http://www.nationaljournal.com/magazine/there-s-no-such-thing-as-political-capital-20130207]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">Presidents are limited in what they can do by time and attention span, of course, just as much as they are by electoral balances in the House and Senate. But this, too, has nothing to do with political capital. </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">….</span>//<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">the room</span>//<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">,</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;"> the aides said.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Key to draw high skilled tech workers back to the US</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Reuters 1-29</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> “Immigration Reform To Provide Net Benefit To U.S. Economy: Experts,” 1/29/2013,[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/29/immigration-reform-economic-boost_n_2571414.html?utm_hp_ref=business]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">NEW YORK, Jan 29 (Reuters) - </span><span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">The sluggish U.S…2 percent</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 14pt;">Increased retention of STEM expertise key to combat cyberwar</span>**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt" style="background-color: #ffffff;">McLarty ‘9</span><span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> Thomas F. McLarty III, President Of McLarty Associates, Former White House Chief of Staff and Task Force Co-Chair, question asked by Frank Finelli, the Carlyle Group, “U.S. Immigration Policy: Report of a CFR-Sponsored Independent Task Force,” Council on Foreign Relations, 7/8/2009, [[http://www.cfr.org/immigration/us-immigration-policy-report-cfr-sponsored-independent-task-force/p19759]]</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">We have seen, …same or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>


==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#T-Underlying]] T-Underlying</span>== 

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Transportation infrastructure has to be the underlying structures not accessories added onto the existing structures</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Trimbath ’11</span>** <span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 8pt;">(Susanne Trimbath “Transportation Infrastructure: Paving the way” Senior Advisor on corporate community investment for the Business Civic Leadership Center of the US Chamber of Commerce CEO and Chief Economist of STP Advisory Services, formerly Senior Research Economist at the Milken Institute [[http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/issues/infrastructure/files/2009TPI_Update_Economics_White_Paper_110712.pdf]])</span>

<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The strategy applied…</span>__<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Intermodal Links</span>__
==Bataille== 
=Round 2= 
==North Korea 1AC== 


<span class="Underline">**Sequestration cuts kill deterrence and deployment capabilities – Ground, air, and sea deterrence are all affected.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**McCausland 3/11**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, (Jeff, PhD, serves as a senior fellow at the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs as the Senior Fellow for War and Ethics. For a number of years I have been writing this brief column monthly to summarize what are the most recent developments and pressing issues in American national security affairs. A National Security Consultant for CBS radio and TV.) March 11, 2013 CBS “State of the Union, North Korean Nukes, and Sequester” http://stlouis.cbslocal.com/2013/03/11/state-of-the-union-north-korean-nukes-and-sequester/</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Sequester</span>…<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the end of March.</span>


<span class="Underline">**The Whitehouse is posturing – North Korean attack is imminent** </span>
<span class="Underline">**a. Capacity and mobilization** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Toor 4/4** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amar joined The Verge in April 2012. He previously worked as an editor for Engadget, and before that, as a writer for Switched. He's currently based in Paris. http://www.theverge.com/2013/4/4/4182372/the-missile-defense-system-that-could-stop-a-north-korean-attack “The missile defense system that could stop a North Korean attack The US deploys an elaborate shield amid escalating tensions in the Pacific” April 4, 2013) Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The</span><span class="Underline"> Obama administration… explosion is approaching fast. </span>

<span class="Underline">**b. Day of the Sun rallied the North Koreans – attack will come, and without warning** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Meredith 4/16** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charlotte Online reporter at Express Newspapers) “North Korea vows blitz attack on South warning 'retaliation will start without notice'”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Express April 16th 2013 [[http://www.express.co.uk/news/world/392335/North-Korea-vows-blitz-attack-on-South-warning-retaliation-will-start-without-notice]] Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> "The supreme command of the Korean People's Army… regime, including that of a nuclear strike on the United States and South Korea.</span>


<span class="Underline">**c. The United States rhetoric guarantees attack** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kumar 4/17** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Anugra Christian Post contributor) “North Korea Demands Apology from US; Threatens Attack on South 'Without Notice'” The Christian Post April 17th 2013 [[http://www.christianpost.com/news/north-korea-demands-apology-from-us-threatens-attack-on-south-without-notice-94092/]] Herm </span>

<span class="Underline"> North Korea </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">has </span><span class="Underline">demanded that…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> actions would "start immediately."</span>


<span class="Underline">**d. Desperation destroys rationality – Korea needs Chinese help, the alternative is conflict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bluth 4/5**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Christoph Professor of international studies at Leeds, Prior to coming to Leeds, he was Professor of International and European Studies at the University of Reading.) Mirror News “North Korea crisis: Blustering Kim Jong-un leaves himself no way out</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nobody wants or can afford a war on the Korean peninsula. At the same time no one knows how to defuse the tension” April 5th 2013 [[http://www.mirror.co.uk/news/world-news/north-korea-crisis-kim-jong-un-1812562]] Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span><span class="Underline">crisis on… a devastating conflict. </span>

<span class="Underline">**China is siding with the US** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Mickleburgh 4/4**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Senior Writer, B.C. Bureau With The Globe and Mail since 1990, first as Health Policy Reporter - co-winning with Andre Picard a Michener Award for coverage of the tainted blood scandal - then four years (1994-98) as Beijing correspondent for the Globe, and, since 1998, posted to the B.C. Bureau, including five years as Bureau Chief.) The Globe and Mail “Is China getting uneasy with North Korea?” April 4th 2013 [[http://www.theglobeandmail.com/news/world/is-china-getting-uneasy-with-north-korea/article10794939/?cmpid=rss1]] Herm </span>

<span class="Underline"> As rantings from…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Mr. Houlden said.</span>

<span class="Underline">**f. Communication intercepts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mullen Starr and Spark 4/5** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(CNN's Jethro Mullen reported and wrote from Hong Kong. CNN's Barbara Starr reported from Washington. CNN's Laura Smith-Spark wrote in London. CNN's Kyung Lah, Judy Kwon and K.J. Kwon contributed in Seoul; Per Nyberg in London; Tim Schwarz in Hong Kong; Joe Sterling and Henry Shirley in Atlanta; Elise Labott and Tom Cohen in Washington) CNN April 5th 2013 [[http://www.cnn.com/2013/04/05/world/asia/koreas-tensions/index.html]] Herm </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But </span><span class="Underline">the… U.S. official said.</span>


**Communications have been severed – all cooperation has ceased after a warning of a final measure**
**Harlan 4/26** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Chico, A Syracuse University graduate, Harlan has worked as a staff writer at the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and the (Sydney) Daily-Telegraph.) “S. Korea to pull workers from joint industrial complex following blockade by Pyongyang” The Washington Post [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/asia_pacific/s-korea-says-it-will-withdraw-final-workers-from-joint-industrial-complex/2013/04/26/e5dade9e-ae61-11e2-8bf6-e70cb6ae066e_story.html]] Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> SEOUL… a bulk of their workers’ salaries.</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure to address North Korea ensures nuclear proliferation and war, global climate change, famine, instability and economic collapse, which culminate in extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hayes and Green, 2010</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- *Victoria University AND Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute (Peter and Michael, “-“The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, 1/5,</span>
<span class="UnderlinedCard"> The consequences…</span> from the international community.

**Full-blown warfare is the worst option and escalates nuclear – plan is key**
**De Luce 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Dan de Luce, November 25, 2010, “War with North Korea Poses Nightmare Scenarios” AFP, [[http://www.abs-cbnnews.com/global-filipino/world/11/25/10/war-north-korea-poses-nightmare-scenarios]]] Herm </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON DC… had a chance to use them. </span>

**First,** <span class="UnderlinedCard">**Air Strikes are critical to winning the war with minimal casualties and zero nuclear escalation** </span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Robinson and Baker 2003</span>**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(Colin RobinsonRear Adm. (Ret.) Stephen H. Baker Senior Fellow Center for Defense Information CDI Research AnalystStand-off with North Korea: War Scenarios and Consequences [[http://www.cdi.org/north-korea/north-korea-crisis.pdf]]</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> Escalatory Pressures for</span>…<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> represents a risky course and the consequences always could be far</span>

**And, naval projection and reliance on air power is the best for fighting a war – only achieved through carriers**
**<span style="background-color: white;">Thompson 09</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">(Loren, Chief Operating Officer at the Lexington Institute, PhD in government from Georgetown, March 10th, “Navy Will Offer Up Carrier & Air Wing in Quadrennial Review”, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://lexingtoninstitute.org/1383.shtml</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

Of course,… doesn't make much sense.

**Ground attacks take too long – would require 100,000 troops and nuclear experts for the invasion alone**
**Curry** **3/29**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Colleen, reporter for ABC news, “U.S. Wargames North Korean Regime Collapse, Invasion to Secure Nukes” Mar 29, 2013 [[http://gma.yahoo.com/u-wargames-north-korean-regime-collapse-invasion-secure-154307513--abc-news-topstories.html]] Herm </span>

"We looked… I think we're challenged to do that."

**Second, the 10-carrier force has destroyed deterrence perceptions – plan is key****to restore deterrence**
**Brookes 08**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">- </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Senior Fellow in National Security Affairs at the Heritage Foundation, Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Affairs (Peter, May 2nd, “Flattop Follies: Navy Cuts Back on Carriers”,http://www.realclearpolitics.com/articles/2008/05/flattop_follies_navy_cuts_back.html)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> CHECK this:… warfare world, quantity has a quality all its own. </span>

**Deterrence capabilities are key to prevent WMD use**
**Bennett 2012** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Bruce W. Bennett is a senior defense analyst at the RAND Corporation who works primarily on research topics such as strategy, force planning, and counterproliferation within the RAND International Security and Defense Policy Center. Ph.D. in policy analysis, Pardee RAND Graduate School; B.S. in economics, California Institute of Technology Strategic Studies Quarterly “Deterring North Korea from Using </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WMD in Future Conflicts and Crises” </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">♦</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Winter 2012 [[http://www.au.af.mil/au/ssq/digital/pdf/winter_12/bennett.pdf]] Herm </span>

To prevent North… strengthening deterrence.

**No chance of stopping their nukes – no announcement makes miscalc likely**
**Gertz 4/11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Bill, Bill Gertz is senior editor of the Washington Free Beacon “North Korea Launch Zone Found” Washington Free Beacon April 11th 2013 [[http://freebeacon.com/north-korea-launch-zone-found/]] Herm </span>

U.S. and allied… and Japanese missile defenses.

**No chance we lose the war – we spend 1,000 times more on our military and their nukes can’t reach our soil – China and Russia won’t step in.**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Feffer 2009</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John Feffer Co-director of Foreign Policy In Focus North Korea Attacking Hawaii? [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/john-feffer/north-korea-attacking-haw_b_219837.html]] Donnie) </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> North Korea has two long-range missiles</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">…only close to home</span>
==Plan Text== 
**Thus the plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the production of naval carriers in the United States.**
=**Round 3**= 
==Framework== 
**A. Interpretation: The affirmative must defend the implementation of a topical plan by the United States federal government as better than the status quo or a competitive alternative.**

1) Definitional Support
a) USFG is the government located in Washington, D.C.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WEST'S LEGAL THESAURUS/DICTIONARY 85</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">, p. 744.</span>
**__United States__**__:__ Usually **__means the federal government centered in Washington, D.C.__**
b) Should expresses desirability
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cambridge Dictionary of American English 10 </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">([[http://dictionary.cambridge.org/define.asp?key=should*1+0&dict=A]]) </span><span class="underline0">should</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> (DUTY) auxiliary verb </span><span class="underline0">used to express that it is </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">necessary</span><span class="underline0">, desirable,</span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;"> advisable, or </span><span class="underline0">important to perform the action of the following verb</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">c)</span>** **<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Increase means to make greater</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 12pt;">Merriam-Webster Dictionary 11</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">(http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/increase)</span>
1 : <span class="underline0">to make greater</span> ; augment
2) Violation: the aff team does not defend implementation of a topical plan

# a. Switch-side debate – plan focus is key to switch-side debate because it forces the aff to defend a plan half the time – this is good

First, its key to education
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Muir ‘93</span>** (Star, Prof. Comm. – George Mason U., Philosophy and Rhetoric, “A Defense of the Ethics of Contemporary Debate”, 26(4))

**__The melding of different areas… rationale for switch-side debate.__**

**Second, <span class="Underline">Set constraints enable creativity and problem-solving: they make participation less intimidating and teach prioritization </span>**
<span class="Underline">**Intrator 10**</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Intrator, David, President of The Creative Organization and musical composer, October 22, 2010,“Thinking Inside The Box: A Professional Creative Dispels A Popular Myth”, Training, [[http://www.trainingmag.com/article/thinking-inside-box]])</span>
<span class="Underline">One of the most pernicious myths about creativity,…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> rules of your own creation. </span>

# b. The competitive nature of debate undermines their advocacy
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mitchell 98</span>**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Gordon R. Mitchell, Assistant Professor of Communication, University of Pittsburgh, ARGUMENTATION AND ADVOCACY, Fall 1998</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Within the limited horizon of zero-sum… co-operative "rethinking." </span>

==Bataille 1NC== 
====Transportation infrastructure is the epitome of utility and reservation – They filter oppression through the empty and machinic automobile, stripping their ethics of meaning.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stoekl, 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 183-185) Henge </span>
<span class="Underline">Public, organized space, then,… colors are happily ignored as well. </span>

====This reliance on utility rests upon an ethic of conservation that subsumes their political and moral project, sacrificing sovereignty in the name of energy feudalism.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stoekl, 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 42) Henge </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We can argue, then, that… have to be replaced by real, human slaves.</span>

====Utility reduces life to a thing among other things – energy is wasted under the sign of efficiency making modern warfare and absolute destruction possible==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stoekl, 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 55-57) Henge </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The answer, I think, is to be found in the nature of the consumption itself. Bataille in effect makes the same mistake that traditional economists make concerning the origin of value: that it is to be found primarily in human labor… transformed in and through death, have disappeared. </span>

====The creation of a utopian ideal causes ascetic hatred of the world and debate space we have – this turns and outweighs the affirmative.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Turanli, 03</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(The Journal of Nietzsche Studies 26 (2003) 55-63, Nietzsche and the Later Wittgenstein: An Offense to the Quest for Another World, Aydan Turanli, Professor, Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, Istanbul Technical University). </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The craving for absolutely general specifications results in doing metaphysics… which in Wittgenstein's terms aims "to show the fly the way out of the fly-bottle"</span>

====We are an explosion of energy, suffering is inevitable and temporal, we are dying from the day we are born – each moment devoted towards the ascetic liberal project is a sacrifice of sovereignty that destroys value to life.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stoekl, 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. 189-191) Henge</span>
<span class="Underline">“Expenditure without return”…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the status of a certain act or of a certain politics.</span>

====Vote negative to sacrifice the 1AC and make the 1AC meaningless==== 
====Sacrifice is an act of meaningless and infinite expenditure that frees us from the onward march of progress and restores expenditure to the real of sovereignty.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Stoekl, 7</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Allan Stoekl is a Professor of French and Comparative Literature at Pennsylvania State University. “Bataille’s Peak: Energy, Religion, and Postsustainability,” pg. xvi-xvii) Henge</span>
<span class="Underline">Bataille’s energy is… movement of the death or void of God.</span>
=**Round 4**= 

**North Korea - same as rd 2**

=**Round 5**= 
==Water 1AC== 
**Contention 1 is conditional hospitality**

**Some peoples’ first experiences of transportation infrastructure in the United States of America are the desert ‘highways’ heading north from the Mexican border into American geographical and social space. After battling extreme heat and scarce resources, they face extreme social stigmatization and political exclusion. Some migrants are fortunate enough to gain legal status—but only under particular predetermined circumstances, at the convenience of the nation.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Failinger ‘7</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marie A. Failinger [Professor of Law @ Hamline University] “Recovering The Face-To-Face In American Immigration Law, Review Of Law And Social Justice, Vol. 16:2 Spring 2007, Google it the PDF is floating around, its also on Lexis: 16 S. Cal. Rev. L. & Social Justice 319</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">From the outset, history records the desire of immigrant for the New World, that “land not of our birth” and “foreign to every nature,” and the reciprocal desire of the New World for these Absolutely Other immigrants… public benefits.106</span>

**Even in debate, every 1NC clamors for “comprehensive immigration reform” not to help immigrants, but for American political and economic gain. Watering down justice to pander to the interests of conservatives leads to increased border securitization and labor abuse.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Selfa ’13</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Lance Selfa, “Washington plays politics on immigration,” Socialist Worker, 2/25/2013, http://socialistworker.org/2013/02/25/playing-politics-on-immigration</span>

<span class="TitleChar">IMMIGRATION REFORM…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">only politicians in Washington tell us is politically possible or necessary.</span>

**Anti-immigrant paranoia also encourages attitudes and practices of material violence against the destitute Other—the incomprehensibility of the Other is rhetorically translated into a virus of which our Nation must be purified at all costs**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Failinger ‘7</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Marie A. Failinger [Professor of Law @ Hamline University] “Recovering The Face-To-Face In American Immigration Law, Review Of Law And Social Justice, Vol. 16:2 Spring 2007, Google it the PDF is floating around, its also on Lexis: 16 S. Cal. Rev. L. & Social Justice 319</span>

<span class="TitleChar">The trajectories that …</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">American women and children.”169</span>

**Local efforts distribute water and maintain access stations along vectors of migrant transportation in the borderlands—but efforts are marred by lack of resources. The call of the migrant other places a demand upon us to provide assistance.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">Roxanne Lynn Doty, “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality,” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 DOI: 10.1177/03058298060350010701</span>
__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ‘</span><span class="Underline">There is no debate …</span>__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">they will move the tent a few feet and they are good for another 14 days. They will do this until the permit comes through. </span>

**Therefore,**

**The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in water access for immigration.**

**Contention 2 is ethics**

**The constant violence wrought by border-logic must be addressed __immediately and unconditionally__. To give in to laziness, intimidation, or reactionary blackmail is to be complicit with the worst exclusions.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roxanne Lynn Doty, “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality,” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 DOI: 10.1177/03058298060350010701</span>
<span style="background-color: lime;">There is an </span><span class="TitleChar">…</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">it comes a call to responsibility.66</span>

**Offering water to the other is an act of radical hospitality which strategically leverages the law’s imperfections for the sake of justice. The affirmative seeks to __take responsibility__ for the violence of immigration policy.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roxanne Lynn Doty, “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality,” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 DOI: 10.1177/03058298060350010701</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In contrast, in a situation of unconditional …</span><span class="TitleChar">smuggler. ‘The face is the same, exposed in its nakedness.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">’51</span>

**Refuse the simplicity of utilitarian calculation and scientific objectivity. Trying to help the migrant Other begins from an infinite and incomprehensible responsibility for others that __needs no additional justification.__**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roxanne Lynn Doty, “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality,” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 DOI: 10.1177/03058298060350010701</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The concept of unconditional hospitality …</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">movement of speech or writing’.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">32</span>

**Endorse a politics of __immediate responsibility__ over the exaggerated political constructs of the 1NC. Our affirmation of unconditional hospitality disrupts the false binaries of rational deliberation without lapsing into inaction.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Doty ‘6 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Roxanne Lynn Doty, “Fronteras Compasivas and the Ethics of Unconditional Hospitality,” Millennium - Journal of International Studies 2006 35: 53 DOI: 10.1177/03058298060350010701</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In this article I suggest… practice that is the focus of this article.</span>

**The words “Resolved: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment,” and especially, “in the United States,” mean a lot of different things to a lot of different perspectives. Supposedly fair, topic-educational, limiting, and not strat-skewing interpretations privilege the views and ideologies of elites and exclude difference.**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Secomb 2k</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;"> Linnell Secomb [lecturer in Gender Studies at the University of Sydney] Fractured Community * Hypatia 15.2 (2000) 133-150, project muse</span>
<span class="TitleChar">Benhabib's</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> critique of universalist liberal theory and her formulation of an alternative conversational model of community are useful and illuminating. However, I suggest that </span><span class="TitleChar">her vision still assumes </span>the desirability of commonality <span style="font-size: 7pt;">…unworking" without common purpose.</span>
=**Round 6**= 

=**Round 7**=