[[toc]]
=Notes= 

=Round 1= 

=Round 2= 
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1ac lending</span>
**Advantage two is lending**

**The aff also resolves the __liquidity trap__ and __bank lending__**
**Greider, 12** (William, National Affairs Correspondent at The Nation, “Can the Federal Reserve Help Prevent a Second Recession?,” The Nation, 11/7/12, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.thenation.com/article/171126/can-federal-reserve-help-prevent-second-recession?page=full</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Despite what you may have … mountain of low-yielding US Treasuries. </span>


<span class="Underline">**Two scenarios—**</span>

<span class="Underline">**First, the chemical industry**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Davoudi and Sakoui, 8** (Salamander Davoudi and Anousha Sakoui, Financial Times, 7/1/8, “Private equity pays dear for investment in chemicals”, [[http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/2a2e4232-478f-11dd-93ca-000077b07658.html#axzz28MPNjwqv|http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/2a2e4232-478f-11dd-93ca-000077b07658.html#axzz28MPNjwqv]])</span>
<span class="Underline">When</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> investors and </span>bankers<span class="Underline"> look …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> exit create an even higher drain on cash.</span>

<span class="Underline">**It’s reverse causal—collapse destroys the chemical industry**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RSC, 8** (Royal Society of Chemistry, October 2008, “US banking failures dent chemical industry optimism”, http://www.rsc.org/chemistryworld/Issues/2008/October/USBankingFailuresDentChemicalIndustryOptimism.asp)</span>
Turmoil<span class="Underline"> in the banking</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and … sectors of housing and automobiles. </span>


**Extinction**
**Baum, 99** (Rudy M., C&EN Washington, Chemical and Engineering News, Millennium Special Report, 12/6/99, <span style="color: #000000;">http://pubs.acs.org/hotartcl/cenear/991206/7749spintro2.html</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Here is the fundamental challenge we face: </span>__…**humanity's basic**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and not-so-basic </span>**__needs__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**__Second__, cybersecurity**
**BGLN, 12** (Bank Governanace Leadership Network, 8/13/12, "Viewpoints", [[http://www.ey.com/Publication/vwLUAssets/ViewPoints_13-Aug-2012/$FILE/ViewPoints_13-Aug-2012.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On June 18, 2012, six non-</span>__executive directors__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, … opportunity to at least begin to improve cooperation. </span>


**Two scenarios for nuclear escalation—**

**__First__, accidental launch**
**Fritz, 9** (Jason, former captain in the U.S. Army, Hacking Nuclear Command and Control, July, www.icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.doc)
<span style="font-size: 8px;">The US uses the two-man rule to achieve a higher level of …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> confusion of mass DDoS attacks, real world protests, and accusations between governments. </span>

**__Second__, intended retaliation**
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lawson, 9</span> (Sean, Ph.D. from the Department of Science and Technology Studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute dissertation on Nonlinear Science and the Emergence of Information Age Warfare in the United States Military, “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation”, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.seanlawson.net/?p=477</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Based on the premise that completely blinding a …</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;"> (namely, cyberattacks with devastating impacts) may be possible. </span>

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;">1ac solvency card</span>
**The plan’s investment of quantitative easing in transportation solves __comparatively better__ than any alternative**
**Peterson, 12** (Eric, Transportation Policy Consultant, Former Deputy Administrator of the Research and Innovative Technology, Administration at the U.S. Department of Transportation, “Is Quantitative Easing an Option for Infrastructure Financing?,” Eno Center for Transportation, a neutral, non-partisan think-tank that promotes policy innovation, 12/31/12, http://www.enotrans.org/eno-brief/is-quantitative-easing-an-option-for-infrastructure-financing)
__The on-going discussions over the “fiscal cliff,” tax reform__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, …</span> __a move could be highly beneficial and transformative.__

=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 

==1ac court clog== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Contention one is court clog</span>

**It’s on the brink now and will undermine court legitimacy**
**Bassler, 96** (William G. Bassler, Judge @ US District Court of New Jersey and Adjunct Prof of Law @ Seton Hall, //Rutgers Law Review//, 48 Rutgers L. Rev. 1139, Summer 1996, lexis) 
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In addition to the delegation of opinion …</span> __costs the country cannot afford.__ <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[[@https://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?cc=&pushme=1&tmpFBSel=all&totaldocs=&taggedDocs=&toggleValue=&numDocsChked=0&prefFBSel=0&delformat=XCITE&fpDocs=&fpNodeId=&fpCiteReq=&expNewLead=id%3D%22expandedNewLead%22&fpSetup=0&brand=ldc&_m=51cc7ed00eed3f3e03333b01e842d01e&docnum=5&_fmtstr=FULL&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzt-zSkAz&_md5=15541cfbe693174d18d5c68cf329a188&focBudTerms=bassler+AND+the+delegation+of+authority&focBudSel=all#n102|102]]</span>



**That crushes democracy and rule of law**
<span class="Heading2Char">Levasseur 2</span> (Alain A., Professor of Law – Louisiana State University, “Legitimacy of Judges”, The American Journal of Comparative Law, Fall, 50 Am. J. Comp. L. 43, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The </span>texts<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, the </span>writings, and<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>…<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> not just the Court but the Nation." </span>



**Rule of law checks nuclear escalation—sets a global precedent**
Rhyne 58 (Charles S., Professor Emeritus – Reed College, ABA Net, Law Day History, 5-1, http://www.abanet.org/publiced/lawday/rhyne58.html, Edited for Language)
<span class="StyleStyle411ptChar">Law and courts</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> exist to </span><span class="StyleStyle411ptChar">protect every citizen …</span>nuclear war overtake our people<span class="Style11pt">**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">. </span>**</span>
<span class="Style11pt"> </span>
<span class="Style11pt"> </span>
**So does democracy**
**Diamond, 95** — Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution (Larry, “Promoting Democracy in the 1990s”, December 1995, http://wwics.si.edu/subsites/ccpdc/pubs/di/1.htm)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">OTHER THREATS This hardly exhausts … international security and prosperity can be built. </span>
<span class="Style11pt"> </span>
<span class="Style11pt"> </span>
**Environmental litigation causes court clog**
**Moyer, 11** (Bruce Moyer, November/December 2011, “November/December 2011: EAJA Attorney Fee Awards Under Scrutiny”, http://www.fedbar.org/Advocacy/Washington-Watch/WW-Archives/2011/NovemberDecember-2011.aspx)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Congressional critics of the EAJA … environmental and resource management statutes.</span>








==<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">1ac biomass adv</span>== 
**Contention two is biomass—**

**Increased transportation is critical to biomass raw material supply which is the critical internal link to the industry**
**FWBUG, 10** (The Federal Woody Biomass Utilization Working Group, chartered under the Biomass Research and Development Board, at least 2010, “Woody Biomass Feedstock Yard Business Development Guide”, http://www.forestsandrangelands.gov/Woody_Biomass/documents/feedstock_yard_guide.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Raw Material Resource</span>__Of primary interest …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Uncertainty of supply creates significant difficulties. </span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Lack of transportation infrastructure is the limiting factor for biomass use in national forests</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Becker et al 11</span> ( Dennis, asst prof, Dep’t of Forest Resources, UMinn. Sarah McCaffrey, research forester, US Forest Service. Dalia Abbas, visiting asst prof, Dep’t of Biosystems and Ag Engineering, MSU. Kathleen Halvorsen, prof, School of Forest Resources and Environmental Science, Michigan Technological Univ. Pamela Jakes, research social scientist, US Forest Service and Cassandra Moseley, director, Ecosystem Workforce Program, Univ of Oregon. “Conventional Wisdom of Woody Biomass Utilization on Federal Public Lands”. //Journal of Forestry//. June. [[http://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/jrnl/2011/nrs_2011_becker_001.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">A review of the empirical research … (Federal Agency, Northern Colorado Front Range #19)</span>


**The aff is key to make the transition to woody biomass**
**NACD, 12** (National Association of Conservation Districts, last modified 11/28/2012, “Implications of Producing and Using Woody Biomass”, Woody Biomass Desk Guide & Toolkit http://www.nacdnet.org/resources/guides/biomass/pdfs/Chapter4.pdf)
__When____considering whether or not …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> which will best meet their needs. </span>

**Woody biomass decreases ethanol usage—the tech already exists, but trees are needed**
**LeSage, 13** (Jon LeSage, 2/26/13, “Colorado ethanol producer Front Range Energy moves from corn to woody biomass”, http://green.autoblog.com/2013/02/26/colorado-ethanol-producer-front-range-energy-woody-biomass/)
__Ethanol____producer Front Range Energy__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, based …</span> __corn ethanol may be in sight.__ 

**Ethanol leads to monocultures**
**Charlesworth 08** (Andrew Charlesworth, Business Green, 7/04/08, “Biofuels push up food prices, says report,” <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.businessgreen.com/ business-green/news/2220780/ biofuels-push-food-prices</span>)
<span style="font-family: 'Georgia','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">ActionAid estimates that the 82 per cent … land into biofuel mono-cropping. </span>

**Extinction**
**Fowler and Mooney, 90** (Cary and Pat, “Rural Advancement Fund International, Shattering: Food, Politics, and the Loss of Genetic Diversity”, 1990, pg. ix)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">While many may ponder the consequences of …</span> __to Africa, Latin America and Asia.__


**Expanded biofuel production jacks food prices**
**Pentland 12** (William Pentland, Chair of the Northeast Clean Heat and Power Initiative and Forbes contributor, July 28, 2012, “The Coming Food Crisis: Blame Ethanol?,” online: http://www.forbes.com/sites/williampentland/2012/07/28/the-coming-food-crisis-blame-ethanol/print/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">If you believe the folks at the New England …</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> justifiably </span>be held responsible.”

**Extinction**
**Klare, 12** — professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College (Michael T., “Michael T. Klare: The Hunger Wars in Our Future”, 8/8/12, http://www.guernicamag.com/daily/michael-t-klare-the-hunger-wars-in-our-future/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">This, however, is just the beginning of … </span><span class="Underline">misery, with unpredictable social consequences</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


**Even blips in food prices kill billions**
**Tampa Tribune, 96** (1/20/1996)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">On a global scale, </span>__food supplies__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - … income on food.</span>


**Famine risks WMD conflict and extinction**
**Lugar, 4**<span style="color: #000000;"> (Richard G., former U.S. Senator – Indiana and Former Chair – Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Plant Power”, Our Planet, 14(3), http://www.unep.org/ourplanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In a world confronted by global terrorism, … people </span>__and the health of our planet__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>







==1ac forest fires adv== 
**Contention three is forest fires—**


**Megafires are coming in the status quo—forests are too overcrowded and status quo thinning fails**
**NPR, 12** (NPR, 8/24/12, “Is It Too Late To Defuse The Danger Of Megafires?”, http://www.npr.org/2012/08/24/159374096/is-it-too-late-to-defuse-the-danger-of-megafires)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Chancellor says even as they keep </span>__… truly have no place to go."__ 

**Removal of trees is key** 
**USFS 6** (United States Forest Service “Four Threats to the Health of the Nation's Forests and Grasslands” http://www.fs.fed.us/projects/four-threats/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans must decide- - </span>__We can …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> issue and commit the needed resources. </span>

**Roads provide an effective prevention mechanism to prevent forest fires that collapse ecosystems**
**KKLIJNF, 10** (KKLIJNF, last referenced date is 2010, “Preventing Forest Fires”, http://www.kkl.org.il/eng/forestry-and-ecology/fire-prevention/)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">When a forest fire breaks out, … "protected" by being closed to people. </span>

**That risks __extinction__—__each__ species is key**
**Diner 94** (David Diner, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To accept that the snail darter…</span> __may be edging closer to the abyss.__ 


**Biodiversity has an __insurance effect__ — solves extinction** 
**Young, 10** — Ph.D. in coastal marine ecology(Ruth, “Biodiversity: what it is and why it’s important”, 2/9/2010, <span style="color: #000000;">http://www.talkingnature.com/2010/02/biodiversity/biodiversity-what-and-why/</span>)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Different </span>__species__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> within ecosystems </span>__fill particular …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> of biodiversity maintains this service.</span>


**North American ecosystems spill over globally** 
**Walsh, et al., 9** — research biologists with the U.S. Geological Survey and co-chairs of the American Fisheries Society’s Endangered Species Committee (Stephen J., Ph.D., Howard L. Jelks, M.Sc., and Noel M. Burkhead, M.Sc., “The Decline of North American Freshwater Fishes”, June 2009, http://www.actionbioscience.org/biodiversity/walsh.html#fullbio)
North America has a broad array of …<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">between terrestrial and aquatic habitats.7,16,17 </span>


**Forests are key to life—oxygen, pollution, and biodiversity**
**Santos, 99** — Professor of Ecology and Environmental Science at Baruch College, New York (Miguel A., “The Environmental Crisis,” pg. 35-36)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In addition, natural </span>__forests__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> provide recreation … </span>**__endangering__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the diversity of </span>**__future human life__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">-support systems. </span>

**Air pollution** **makes extinction inevitable**
**Driesen, 3** – Associate Professor, Syracuse University College of Law (David M., Fall/Spring, “Sustainable Development and Air Quality: The Need to Replace Basic Technologies with Cleaner Alternatives,” 10 Buff. Envt'l. L.J. 25, Lexis)
**__Air pollution can make life unsustainable__****__…__**__contribute to__ __long lasting ecological problems__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>



==1ac plan text== 
<span class="Underline">**<span style="text-decoration: none;">Thus, the United States Forest Service should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in national forests in the United States.</span>**</span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>
<span class="Underline"> </span>


==1ac solvency== 
**Contention five is solvency—**

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The aff results in Stewardship contracting—this is modeled, creating future stewardship contracts</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Moseley and Davis, 10</span> (Cassanda. Emily Jane. Ecosystem Workforce Program, University of Oregon. [[http://ewp.uoregon.edu/sites/ewp.uoregon.edu/files/downloads/WP_25.pdf]].
“Stewardship Contracting for Landscape-Scale Projects”. Summer)
Stewardship<span class="Underline"> end-result </span>contracting is<span class="Underline"> a … that best fit their circumstances</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stewardship contracting fosters cooperation between industry, environmental groups, and government</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Kittler 10</span> (January. Brian. Pinchot Institute for Conservation. “The Role of Communities in Stewardship Contracting: A Programmatic Review of Forest Service Projects”. Report to the USDA Forest Service. )
<span class="Underline">**Stewardship contracting**</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px; text-decoration: none;"> is </span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">…</span> forest management<span class="Underline"> and planning</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">This solves litigation—the collaborative process of stewardship contracting is critical</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Becker et al, 11</span> (Dennis, asst prof, Dep’t of Forest Resources, UMinn. Sarah McCaffrey, research forester, US Forest Service. Dalia Abbas, visiting asst prof, Dep’t of Biosystems and Ag Engineering, MSU. Kathleen Halvorsen, prof, School of Forest Resources and Environmental Science, Michigan Technological Univ. Pamela Jakes, research social scientist, US Forest Service and Cassandra Moseley, director, Ecosystem Workforce Program, Univ of Oregon. “Conventional Wisdom of Woody Biomass Utilization on Federal Public Lands”. //Journal of Forestry//. June. [[http://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/jrnl/2011/nrs_2011_becker_001.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Past </span>__research__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> has </span>__identiﬁed____various …__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Community Partner, Central Oregon #66)</span>


<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Only the Forest Service can guarantee supply which gets the private sector on board</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Becker et al 11</span> ( Dennis, asst prof, Dep’t of Forest Resources, UMinn. Sarah McCaffrey, research forester, US Forest Service. Dalia Abbas, visiting asst prof, Dep’t of Biosystems and Ag Engineering, MSU. Kathleen Halvorsen, prof, School of Forest Resources and Environmental Science, Michigan Technological Univ. Pamela Jakes, research social scientist, US Forest Service and Cassandra Moseley, director, Ecosystem Workforce Program, Univ of Oregon. “Conventional Wisdom of Woody Biomass Utilization on Federal Public Lands”. //Journal of Forestry//. June. [[http://www.nrs.fs.fed.us/pubs/jrnl/2011/nrs_2011_becker_001.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The ﬁrst conventional wisdom assessed …</span><span class="Underline"> leverage loans for additional investment.</span>


==at: Democracy bad== 

Democracy checks all their impacts—no leader would hurt their people
<span class="Underline">McGinnis and Somin, 7 (</span>Professor of Law @ NU and Georgetown RespectivelyJohn and Ilya, Should International Law Be Part of Our Law?, Stanford Law Review, Questia)
Finally, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">democratic accountability also plays a crucial role in preventing major public policy disasters, since elected leaders know that a highly visible catastrophic failure is likely to lead to punishment at the polls</span>. For example, it is striking that no democratic nation, no matter how poor, has ever had a mass famine within its borders, (96) whereas such events are common in authoritarian and totalitarian states. (97) More generally, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">democracy serves as a check on self-dealing by political elites and helps ensure, at least to some extent, that leaders enact policies that serve the interests of their people</span>.

Democratic transition decreases war – best models
Ward and Gleditsch 98 (Michael D., Professor of Political Science – University of Washington and Kristian S., Graduate Research Trainee in the Globalization and Democratization Program – University of Colorado, Boulder, American Political Science Review, March)
As Figure 1 details, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">democratization-whether in mild or strong degrees-is accompanied by reduction, not increase, in the risk of war</span>. Though we do not present graphs of the converse, changes toward autocracy and <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">reversals of democratization are accompanied by increased risks of war involvement</span>. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">These risks are proportionally greater than the decline or benefits of further democratization</span>. Thus, there is strong evidence that democratization has a monadic effect: It reduces the probability that a country will be involved in a war. Although the probability of war involvement does not decrease linearly, it does decrease monotonically, so that over the entire range of democracy minus autocracy values, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">there is a reduction of about 50%. During the democratic transition, at every point</span> along the way as well as at the end points, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">there is a</span>n <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">attendant reduction in the probability of a polity being at war</span>. We also find that reversals toward greater levels of autocracy (not shown) not only increase the probability of war involvement. Apparently, it is more dangerous to be at a given level of democracy if that represents an increase in the level of authoritarianism than it is to be at the same level of democracy if that represents a decrease in the authoritarian character of the regime. Stated differently, <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">reversals are riskier than progress</span>. It has been argued that institutional constraints are theoretically important in translating the effect of democracy into foreign policy (Bueno de Mesquita, Siverson, and Woller 1992; Siverson 1995). If the idea of democracy is separated into its major components, then the degree of executive constraints empirically dominates the democracy and autocracy scales (Gleditsch and Ward 1997). Accordingly, we demonstrate that moving toward stronger executive constraints also yields a visible reduction in the risk of war. [Continues] CONCLUSION <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Our results show that the process of democratization is accompanied by a decrease in the probability of a country being involved in a war</span>, either as a target or as an initiator. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">These results were obtained with a more current (and corrected) database than was used in earlier work</span>, and our analyses also focus more clearly on the process of transition. <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">In comparison to studies that look only at </span>the existence of <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">change in authority characteristics, we examine the direction, magnitude, and smoothness of the transition process. </span>
==2ac immigration== 

Won’t pass—Boston, Border Security, Obama, and House Opposition
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Linkins 4/27</span> (Jason, “Congress And Immigration Reform: The Complete Guide To High Hopes, Certain Doom”, [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/04/27/congress-immigration-reform-2013_n_3166603.html]])
Thus, it's hard to doubt Rubio's sincerity anymore. He's clearly decided that immigration reform is worthy of wagering his political capital. And the GOP establishment has invested much in Rubio's political future -- it goes hand-in-hand with the party's overall "rebranding" effort. But <span class="Underline">even with momentum</span>, aligned incentives, and Rubio's consistent, insistent efforts, <span class="Underline">there remain </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">many pitfalls</span>// on the road ahead.¶ 1. Recent tragic events: How the attack on <span class="Underline">the Boston</span> Marathon might affect the chances of immigration reform's passage is probably one of the most petty things about which to be concerned right now. But the <span class="Underline">impact</span> it may have <span class="Underline">is</span> nonetheless <span class="Underline">very real</span>. While Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, the suspect now in custody, is a naturalized U.S. citizen, his troubled brother Tamerlan had his application for citizenship held up by the Department of Homeland Security, by dint of the fact that he'd been questioned by the FBI "at the request of the Russian government, which suspected that he had ties to Chechen terrorists."¶ <span class="Underline">That was enough to open the </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">xenophobic floodgates</span>//. Per Robert Reich:¶ <span class="Underline">Senator</span> Rand <span class="Underline">Paul in a letter to Senate Majority Leader</span> Harry <span class="Underline">Reid</span> today <span class="Underline">urged him to reconsider immigration legislation because of</span> the bombings in <span class="Underline">Boston</span>. “The facts emerging in the Boston Marathon bombing have exposed a weakness in our current system,” Paul writes. “If we don’t use this debate as an opportunity to fix flaws in our current system, flaws made even more evident last week, then we will not be doing our jobs.”¶ Senator Chuck <span class="Underline">Grassley, senior Republican senator on the Senate Judiciary Committee, which is responsible for an immigration reform bill, is using much the same language</span>—<span class="Underline">suggesting</span> that <span class="Underline">the investigation </span>of two alleged Boston attackers <span class="Underline">will “help shed light on</span> the <span class="Underline">weaknesses</span> of our system.”¶ This is one of the issues that Rubio -- as reform's de facto public defender -- has been forced to finesse with critics, and he's done so by gamely offering to address these issues within the larger debate on the bill. In the main, Rubio has remained confident that while this may hamper his effort, concerns over Boston can still be surmounted. Nevertheless, there are cracks: he's since entertained the notion that Muslim students should be denied visas.¶ But as Gabriel Arana writes: "As numerous commentators have pointed out, there is no reasonable change to the immigration system that would have stopped Dzhokhar and Tamerlan Tsarnaev from becoming radicalized and carrying out the attacks in Boston." But Congress is not typically known for sobriety following a terrorist attack. <span class="Underline">The Tsarnaev brothers have</span> thus <span class="Underline">given reform skeptics </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a crack at which to pick.¶</span>// 2. The "GOP suicide" argument: Of course, the tragedy in Boston is not the only weakness that opponents of reform can attack. In terms of the policy, <span class="Underline">critics dislike</span> two things about the reform package in particular: the "path to <span class="Underline">citizenship</span>" -- <span class="Underline">which </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">fervent opponents</span>// still <span class="Underline">consider</span> to be <span class="Underline">amnesty</span> writ large -- <span class="Underline">and the border enforcement "trigger" that might just be a "goal</span>." <span class="Underline">The latter will</span>, in all likelihood, <span class="Underline">be </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">the key sticking point</span>//<span class="Underline"> with GOP lawmakers</span>, <span class="Underline">many of whom might be amenable to</span> a "path to <span class="Underline">citizenship</span>" on both practical and humane grounds, <span class="Underline">but won't be able to convince their constituents to let them cast a "yea" vote without</span> ironclad assurance that <span class="Underline">the</span> Southwestern <span class="Underline">border</span> won't get <span class="Underline">locked down</span> tight.¶ But skepticism over the policy might get trumped by skepticism over the politics. By which I mean, the extant fear that the <span class="Underline">passage</span> of comprehensive immigration reform <span class="Underline">is tantamount to "GOP suicide</span>." Here's Rush Limbaugh, during his April 26 broadcast:¶ Well, this illegal number, 11 million, that's the smallest number anybody's ever been using. And obviously 11 million's a little more palatable than 20 million, making it easier to sell. But now this group, NumbersUSA, says over a 10-year period. We're talking about 33 million people. So right there, if that number is right, we're talking, according to polling data that exists today, out of 33 million people over 10 years, 25 million of them would be Democrats, and eight million would be Republicans. According to polling data today.¶ So if you want to look at it that way, over 10 years, 25 million new Democrats? It's like The Politico said last week, folks, that's the end of the Republican Party. That wipes it out for a generation. The Politico wrote that story, the end of the Republican Party.¶ Ahh, yes. That Politico story that Limbaugh is referring to was a mess of innumerate, alarmist nonsense (they've sort of been on a hot streak of innumerate, alarmist nonsense lately) that claimed that immigration reform represented a certain future "bonanza" for the Democratic Party. The New Republic's Nate Cohn could not believe what he was reading: "While it's worth considering the electoral consequences of immigration reform, Politico’s effort is worse than no effort at all." He went on at length, tearing apart Politico's math, which "assumed that each and every one of the 11 million undocumented immigrants will become citizens and vote for the Democratic candidate by a 71-27 margin" and that "every undocumented worker will become a citizen, and that every new citizen will vote in the 2028 election."¶ This is ludicrous. Only 50 percent of eligible Hispanic voters and 59 percent of all eligible voters turned out in the 2012 election, and there’s little reason to think that newly documented immigrants will participate at unprecedented levels. If anything, there’s reason to believe to believe that they would participate at lower rates, since they would need to get registered and then vote for the first time.¶ Not all undocumented workers will become citizens, either. Politico concedes as much, noting that “there is no way of knowing” how many of the estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants would gain citizenship. There isn’t a reliable estimate of this, but a recent Latino Decisions survey found that 87 percent of them want to become citizens and 85 percent have family members in the United States. Assuming 85 percent instead of 100 percent would have been far more reasonable, especially since Politico assumes that all 11 million of them will still be alive in 2028.¶ Yes, Politico seems to have forgotten that the Hispanic vote, while coveted, is not, strictly speaking, immortal. Otherwise, no political party would dare cross them! But the bottom line is that Cohn's more intelligent projections bottom-lines immigration reform's electoral effect as exceedingly slight:¶ Newly legal immigrants would only add 0.6 percentage points to the Democratic nominee’s share of the vote in 2028, or increase the margin of victory by 1.3 points. In Texas, where legalizing undocumented immigrants will improve Democratic performance the most, Romney’s big victory last year would have shrunk by only 4 points. Even in states with large Hispanic populations, like Florida or Colorado, Democrats would only gain about 0.5 percentage points.¶ But there's going to be no convincing the loudest faction of reform opponents, who remain steadfast in their belief that "the larger effect of this immigration bill will cripple Republicans nationally for the foreseeable future."¶ 3. Obama's support: I know it sounds inane, but <span class="Underline">the very fact</span> that <span class="Underline">Obama may sign the bill could be reason enough for the GOP to </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">destroy it</span>//. <span class="Underline">Who wants to hand the president</span> they hate <span class="Underline">a big legacy item, </span>after all? Beyond that, there is latent suspicion of Obama's motives. Take Texas Sen. Ted Cruz (please!):¶ “I think the reason the White House is insisting on a path to citizenship for those who are here illegally is because the White House knows that insisting on that is very likely to scuttle the bill,” Cruz told Jan Crawford, adding that it would allow Democrats to run on immigration reform in the 2014 midterms.¶ “What would you do with the 11 million people who are here illegally?” Crawford asked later in the interview. ”I think there could probably be a compromise on that,” Cruz answered, “if the a path to citizenship was taken off the table.”¶ The shorter version of this argument is "I don't necessarily want to vote against immigration reform, but Obama might make me, with his sneakiness." Meanwhile, it's actually John McCain who is making the strongest case for the path to citizenship:¶ “There’s no way of getting this job done without giving people a path to citizenship,” McCain said. Speaking of the sub-citizenship legal status that some Republicans favor, McCain added: “Legal status is not something that someone should have to remain in unless they want to. And to say that you can have legal status, but you can’t have ever a path to become a citizen of this country … offends fundamental principles of fairness in our society.”¶ “I know that that opposition is there,” McCain continued. ”I don’t think it’s valid. And I don’t think it’s held even by a majority of Republicans -- certainly not in the Senate.”¶ Well, the good news for McCain is that no, Ted Cruz does not represent a majority of senators. But look, we all know that there's a good chance that immigration reform is going to survive the Senate. Where is it likely to meet its demise?¶ 4. The House Of Representatives: The reason that the Octogäng is hoping against hope that they pull off a 70-vote win, is because the result might be bold enough to influence the decision-making of the far more skeptical members of the House GOP caucus. Any amount of "x-factor" would be helpful, because at the moment, <span class="Underline">the outlook for getting reform through the House is </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">pretty mixed</span>//.¶ But the National Review's Robert <span class="Underline">Costa</span> -- <span class="Underline">who's</span> so <span class="Underline">close to the pulse of the GOP</span> that he could probably insert a stent should some cardiac emergency arise -- <span class="Underline">notes</span> that <span class="Underline">House Speaker</span> John <span class="Underline">Boehner has</span> lately <span class="Underline">embraced the "regular order" as a means of transforming the House into </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">a "slow-motion sausage factory":¶</span>// In Beltway-speak, this meant that, from then on, Boehner would chiefly use the committees to craft legislation. <span class="Underline">Lawmaking</span>, <span class="Underline">in</span> almost <span class="Underline">every sense</span>, <span class="Underline">would be slowed down</span>. Instead of being the subject of haggling in the Oval Office over Merlot and Nicorette, bills would be amended and fleshed out through committee hearings, the way they have been since time immemorial.¶ [...]¶ “Regular order” is cited inside the Republican cloakroom as a slightly subversive way in which the president can be stalled. <span class="Underline">Boehner’s shift has created a slow-motion sausage factory for Obama’s legislative projects</span>. <span class="Underline">Even if the Democratic-controlled Senate passes a bill, it faces a </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">tortuous</span>//<span class="Underline"> procedural future in the lower chamber.¶</span> And the implications for immigration? Costa has the answer:¶ Consider immigration. Several <span class="Underline">sources close to the leadership say</span> that <span class="Underline">even if the Senate passes</span> something on <span class="Underline">immigration, the bill will be immediately sent to the committees</span>, <span class="Underline">and then</span> either <span class="Underline">sent back to the Senate with changes, or rewritten in a bicameral conference committee</span>. This means that <span class="Underline">the chance of the Senate’s</span> Gang of Eight <span class="Underline">bill coming to the House floor</span>, as is, <span class="Underline">is</span> nearly //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">non-existent</span>//. House Republicans would first have to mull it, schedule hearings, and then tinker with its legislative language.¶ That <span class="Underline">tweaking process could take </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">months</span>//, <span class="Underline">which is just fine with</span> many <span class="Underline">Republicans</span>, who’d like the public to have as much time as possible to chew over the controversial elements of Obama’s prized bills. The caucus consensus is: <span class="Underline">The more time Congress takes to consider a bill, the more time the public has to </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">sour on its components</span>//<span class="Underline">.</span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Massive increase in TI now</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hargreaves 13</span> – Steve Hargreaves, Reporter at CNN Money, “The High Cost of America's Bad Roads and Bridges”, CNN Money, 2-13, http://money.cnn.com/2013/02/12/news/economy/infrastructure-spending/index.html
<span class="Underline">Funding for the </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">D</span>epartment <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">o</span>f <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">T</span>ransportation <span class="Underline">was $73 billion in 2012. That</span> number <span class="Underline">includes</span> federal <span class="Underline">capital spending on</span> things such as <span class="Underline">roads, bridges,</span> passenger <span class="Underline">rail, buses, waterways, ports and aviation</span>, as well as some operating costs. It represents about 30% to 40% of what the country spends on transportation infrastructure each year, with the rest coming from state, local or private sources. <span class="Underline">DOT's budget has </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">gone up steadily</span><span class="Underline"> since 2003, when it was about $59 billion</span>. That's in addition to the $50 billion or so the government spent on transportation projects as part of the stimulus effort in 2009.

<span class="Underline">No link and turn—Either the GOP likes the plan which will be spun as a concession to them OR the GOP will push it—either way it’s hidden as a rider</span>
<span class="Underline">Lee, 13 (Jennifer Lee, 2/12/13, “Conferees Approve G.O.P. Provisions to Expand Development in Alaska National Forests”, http://www.nytimes.com/2003/02/12/us/conferees-approve-gop-provisions-expand-development-alaska-national-forests.html?pagewanted=print&src=pm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Republicans have tucked provisions into the spending bill that the House and Senate conferences are negotiating to permit road building in two Alaska forests, expand timber harvesting in national forests and open the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge to exploratory oil drilling. Democrats say the provisions would weaken Clinton-era protections for national forests. Republicans say Democrats and conservation groups are distorting the proposals to generate opposition to reasonable modifications of overly restrictive policies. Republicans defeated a Democratic effort on Monday to strip the forest amendments from the bill. As a result, the changes will most likely be included if the $396 billion package is approved.</span>

No link—stewardship contracting means Congressional action isn’t necessary
Gorte, 1 (Ross Natural Resource Economist and Senior Policy Analyst “ Stewardship Contracting for the National Forests” http://mchenry.house.gov/uploadedfiles/ozarks%20-%20crs%20report%20stewardship%20contracting%20for%20the%20national%20forests.pdf)
Another “advantage” proclaimed by some proponents is that goods-for-services contracting is off-budget financing for forest stewardship. Concerns over the adequacy of appropriations for forest stewardship have led some to search for alternative funding mechanisms, and goods-for-services contracting is one approach that has been proposed. Essentially, the Forest Service would be able to buy stewardship services with timber assets, as part of modified timber sale contracts, instead of with appropriations.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Consensus building of the stewardship contract avoids political backlash</span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Percival, 97</span> (Robert V., Professor of Law @ Maryland, Robert Stanton Scholar & Director, Environmental Law Program, University of Maryland School of Law, University of Chicago Legal Forum)
Those who make a serious effort to "rethink regulation" ultimately will recognize that <span class="Underline">far more fundamental environmental progress could be accomplished by changing the nation's </span>energy, agricultural, and //<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">transportation policies</span>//<span class="Underline"> to make them more responsive to </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">environmental concerns</span>//<span class="Underline">.</span> The nation's tax system levies the vast majority of taxes on labor and capital rather than on waste and pollution. [[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=c737c7bcb804efbc832f6f604952812d&csvc=bl&cform=bool&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVtb-zSkAl&_md5=6f476aea722b3c7258f7eb8214a9fa0b#n215#n215|215]] However, <span class="Underline">fundamental reforms</span> in tax [*197] or energy policy <span class="Underline">are</span> quickly dismissed as <span class="Underline">politically unrealistic. Much more effort should be devoted to considering why such policies are so unattractive politically and what,</span> if anything, <span class="Underline">can be done to change the political dynamics.</span> The enactment of consensus food safety and safe drinking water legislation in 1996 demonstrates continuing bipartisan support for environmental protection. It also demonstrates that <span class="Underline">legislative gridlock can be overcome when measures are perceived to provide some benefits to both industry and environmental interests that traditionally have been antagonistic. The enactment of further </span>environmental <span class="Underline">legislation may require the use of </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">consensus-building processes</span>//<span class="Underline"> that foster compromises necessary to </span>//<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">overcome legislative gridlock</span>//<span class="Underline">.</span>

The plan isn’t even reported until December 15th
USDA, 8 (The United States department of agriculture, 10/09/2008 “REPORTING ACTIVITIES FOR STEWARDSHIP CONTRACTING” www.fs.fed.us/im/directives/fsh/2409.19/2409.19_60.doc)
The responsible agency officials shall inform the multi-party monitoring contractor (sec. 68) about the requirement to provide a draft report on the role of local communities in stewardship contracting to the Washington Office, Director of Forest Management staff,. The Director of Forest Management staff shall use the information from the contractor’s draft report and from internal accomplishment reporting (sec. 69.1) to prepare a draft report to Congress for approval by the Chief of the Forest Service. The report must respond to the three reporting items prescribed by Title 16, United States Code, section 2104 Note (sec. 69). 2. The Chief shall submit an annual report to the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate on the three items specified in section 69 of this handbook. The Chief shall also report stewardship contracting contributions to performance and workload measures consistent with the Government Performance and Results Act. 69.2 - Stewardship Contracting Accomplishments Reporting District rangers shall support national accomplishments reporting by completing information for each project at the time of project initiation and annually updating this information, according to the instructions issued by the Washington Office, Director of Forest Management. Regional foresters shall ensure that accomplishment reports are completed and updated annually by December 15.


Plan popular with the GOP
Song, 11 (Kyung M. Song, Seattle Times, 10/2/11, “GOP pushing for more logging in national forests”, http://o.seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/2016387586_secureschools03m.html)
The GOP wants to shift the forest-payment program closer to its 1908 origin, when the federal government directly split revenue from timber, mining and other activities to pay for local schools and roads in Washington state and around the country. Environmentalists and the U.S. Forest Service oppose the changes, including proposals to re-link payments to the amount of timber or minerals extracted and to set first-ever minimum timber-harvest targets for each national forest. Currently, logging in national forests produces about 3 billion board feet of timber annually, a 75 percent drop from its peak 20 years ago. Beleaguered local officials, already grappling with budget shortfalls, are pressing for quick reauthorization of the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act to avert an interruption in payments. At the same time, they want Congress to revamp the payments, which they consider inadequate and undependable. The legislative debate will resume this week when Congress returns from recess. Lawmakers were unable to reconcile several versions of the reauthorization bill in the House and the Senate before the legislation expired Friday. House Republicans, led by Rep. Doc Hastings, R-Pasco, chairman of the Natural Resources Committee, are using the reauthorization to push two of the issues that have dominated their agenda this year: cutting federal spending and rolling back environmental regulation. Among other things, they would set minimum requirements on timber sales and annual revenue for each national forest. They also want to speed up environmental reviews of logging, grazing, drilling and mining, blaming the reviews for hindering projects on federal lands. In addition, Republicans have called for paying counties 75 percent instead of the historical 25 percent of revenue from federal forests, handing local officials a tempting financial motive to support cutting more trees. "This is a sinister attempt to go back to the days when logging was the dominant use of national forests," said Michael Francis, director of the national forests program for The Wilderness Society. "The American people like their forests green and they like it clean. You can't turn back the clock." Entitlement program The math behind federal forest payments worked for the first 80 years. Wide-scale logging generated enough revenue that the 25 percent share for counties was enough to help sustain rural communities dominated by federal lands. But that formula fell apart after the legal battles that pitted loggers against the northern spotted owl and the environmental movement in the 1980s and 1990s. Suffering from drastically reduced timber harvests, the counties in 2000 persuaded Congress to pass a new Security Rural Schools act that uncoupled the payments from the annual logging haul and other revenue. The forest payments morphed into an entitlement program paid directly out of the U.S. Treasury. In 2010, those payments totaled $412 million to 729 counties around the country. Washington received $34.6 million, more than any other state besides Oregon and California. Anna Morrison was among those who helped to enact the change into an entitlement program. Morrison, 64, had watched her hometown of Florence, Ore., which is hemmed by the Pacific Ocean and the Siuslaw National Forest, become devastated when the saws fell silent. She and her husband shut down their business building logging roads in 1989. Morrison believed the revised federal program would provide a temporary financial reprieve for counties while federal officials worked to revive logging. But the logging never really returned. Morrison blames that on environmental restrictions, the threat of lawsuits and sheer bureaucratic inertia. Secure Rural Schools was meant to shore up depleted county coffers while communities diversified their economies away from timber. The reality, she says, is that towns like hers have few alternatives. "Florence is surrounded on three sides by a national forest," said Morrison, legislative chairwoman for Oregon Women in Timber, an industry-advocacy group. "You are not going to get any other kind of economic activity." Hastings, whose National Resources Committee has jurisdiction over the legislation, echoes that. He contends the Forest Service has failed to manage the forests vigorously. He complains federal timber sales are too small and too infrequent. He also says wilderness designations, land acquisitions and overregulation have put so much land off-limits that some forests aren't thinned enough to adequately reduce the risk of wildfires. Hastings believes the forests can sustainably withstand much more logging — and at the same time generate jobs and help strapped counties. The communities "deserve to have the logging revenue that was there," he said.

==Advantage cp== 

Keystone XL pipeline bill won’t pass now, but it’s attached to the CP
Gardner, 3/22/13 (Timothy, and Richard Cowan, “Senate budget plan to include Keystone XL approval: lawmaker,” Reuters, 3/22/13, http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/03/22/us-usa-keystone-senate-idUSBRE92L0YJ20130322)
"The only thing today's nonbinding, symbolic vote underscores on Keystone XL is the fact that this is President Obama's decision alone," said Becky Bond, of CREDO, the activist arm of the CREDO mobile network.
Hoeven's larger bill would likely need 60 votes to pass and faces an uphill battle. Its supporters may try to attach it to must-pass legislation that Obama would find hard to veto.

<span class="Underline">Causes warming</span>
<span class="Underline">Treehugger, 11 (Cites Dr. James Hansen, total boss and leading climate scientist, "Top U.S. Climate Scientist: "Tar Sands are the Critical Juncture," Tree Hugger: A Discover Company, www.treehugger.com/climate-change/top-us-climate-scientist-tar-sands-are-critical-juncture-video.html, 11/7/11)</span>
Dr. James Hansen, of NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies, is one of America's most important climate scientists. He was instrumental in introducing the issue of global warming to the nation over two decades ago (!). Now, he devotes much of his time to raising public awareness of climate change -- he's written well-received books on the topic, recommended policy solutions, and participated in demonstrations and protests all over the U.S. And he's easily one of the gutsiest scientists in the country -- he'd been arrested for protesting mountaintop removal mining, and, most recently, the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline currently proposed to cut through the middle of America. Earlier this year, he said that if the pipeline were to be approved, it would be "game over for the climate", since refining and burning the fuel generates so many greenhouse gas emissions. Dr. Hansen joined 12,000 other concerned citizens at the White House yesterday, to form a massive human chain around the president's house. I had a chance to speak with Hansen in the midst of the action, and he took a moment to explain why tar sands represent "a critical juncture" for our future, why unconventional fossil fuels are so dangerous, and how our politics could feasibly fight climate change. Watch: We had a friendly internal debate here at TreeHugger after Hansen made his "game over" statement about the tar sands, so I was curious to follow up on that issue in particular. And it seems that my initial interpretation was correct -- as he explains in the video above, Hansen doesn't necessarily believe that approval of the Keystone XL will be the one straw that breaks the camel's back, delivering us unto a world destined for catastrophic, runaway global warming. No, he seems to mean that if we allow the Keystone XL to set a precedent -- that we aim aim to develop dirtier, more expensive, unconventional fossil fuels instead of renewable sources -- then it will be game over for the climate system as we know it.

Extinction
Doebbler, 11 (Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer, “Two threats to our existence”, Ahram Weekly, July 2011, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm)
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest threat facing humanity<span class="Underline">. It will lead to</span> small island states disappearing from the face of the earth, serious global threats to our food and water supplies, and ultimately the death of hundreds of millions of the poorest people in the world over the course of this century. No other threat -- including war, nuclear disasters, rogue regimes, terrorism, or the fiscal irresponsibility of governments -- is reliably predicted to cause so much harm to so many people on earth, and indeed to the earth itself. The International Panel on Climate Change, which won the Nobel Prize for its evaluation of thousands of research studies to provide us accurate information on climate change, has predicted that under the current scenario of "business-as-usual", temperatures could rise by as much as 10 degrees Celsius in some parts of the world. This would have horrendous consequences for the most vulnerable people in the world. Consequences that the past spokesman of 136 developing countries, Lumumba Diaping, described as the equivalent of sending hundreds of millions of Africans to the furnace. Yet for more than two decades, states have failed to take adequate action to either prevent climate change or to deal with its consequences. A major reason for this is that many wealthy industrialised countries view climate change as at worst an inconvenience, or at best even a potential market condition from which they can profit at the expense of developing countries. Indeed, history has shown them that because of their significantly higher levels of population they have grown rich and been able to enslave, exploit and marginalise their neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.

==federalism== 

Undermining federalism is key to solving bioterrorism
Sutton 01 (Vickie Sutton, Paul Whitfield Horn Professor of Law and Director of the Center for Biodefense, Law and Public Policy, 6. Geo. Public Policy Rev. 93, Spring)
However, the demarcation between federal and state powers has been clear in some areas. The regulation of public health has traditionally been a police power of the states, arising from the regulation of contagion and disease during colonial times. Quarantine laws have historically fallen under state powers, as have other areas of public health law; the regulation of national security has been exclusively given to the Congress through the Constitution. Thus, bioterrorism has given rise to a new conflict with federalism where national security, the province of the federal government, becomes a matter of public health, an area traditionally regulated by the states. This conflict suggests that federalism should give way to the [*95] constitutionally delegated powers of the United States to preserve national security, even though it would mean the regulation of state public health systems in order to achieve that goal. The systematic communication, surveillance, and reporting functions essential to preparation for and response to a bioterrorism event require federal coordination. However, any expansion of the federal government into the area of public health must be sufficiently narrow to avoid the erosion of the states' constitutionally preserved sovereignty. The modern interpretation of federalism suggests that there is a shift from the New Deal era of federal regulation to recognizing powers reserved to the states, particularly in the area of public health. The suggestion that national public health goals must be implemented through state political processes rather than Congressional legislation is troublesome because the essence of our defense against bioterrorism will be federal coordination of planning, preparedness, and response. n5 States are constitutionally prohibited from regulating such activities. n6 Traditional cooperative federalism with the necessary flexibility for states' self-governance does not lend itself to a precise system designed to operate uniformly with sensitivity and rapid response.

Extinction
Matheny 07 – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason Matheny, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)
Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed to engineer a virus is modest compared to that needed to build a nuclear weapon; the necessary equipment and materials are increasingly accessible and because biological agents are self-replicating, a weapon can have an exponential effect on a population (Warrick, 2006; Williams, 2006). 5 Current U.S. biodefense efforts are funded at $5 billion per year to develop and stockpile new drugs and vaccines, monitor biological agents and emerging diseases, and strengthen the capacities of local health systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006). There is currently no independent body assessing the risks of high-energy physics experiments. Posner (2004) has recommended withdrawing federal support for such experiments because the beneﬁts do not seem to be worth the risks.

No impact to prolif: it will be slow and no arms racing
Jones 13 (Peter, Associate Professor – University of Ottawa School of Public and International Affairs and Distinguished Visiting Fellow – Hoover Institution, “Rapid nuclear proliferation simply doesn’t happen”, The Globe and Mail, 2-18, http://www.theglobeandmail.com/commentary/rapid-nuclear-proliferation-simply-doesnt-happen/article8729083/)

There is considerable historical evidence to suggest that this would not happen. If it did, it would take a long time. Talk of rapid proliferation across the region is simply not apt. Since the dawn of the nuclear era, various leaders and analysts have predicted that nuclear proliferation would take place rapidly and inexorably. Those countries that could build the bomb would do so, and others would build it in response. It has been predicted that almost 50 countries would eventually join the nuclear club alongside the five nuclear-weapon states recognized under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That prediction has proved wrong. Only four additional countries – India, Pakistan, Israel and North Korea – have acquired nuclear weapons. One country unambiguously tried and was stopped (Iraq, before it was foolish enough to invade Kuwait). In each case, the reasons why these countries decided to build nuclear weapons had to do with the specifics of their security situations rather than a reflex action. This record is hardly cause for celebration but also hardly the proliferation threat so often forecast. Moreover, neighbours were threatened when these countries acquired nuclear weapons but decided not to build nuclear weapons in response. Japan and South Korea did not build them after China and then North Korea did, despite chilling rhetoric from the one-party states that easily matched anything Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said about Israel. No Arab country built them after Israel did. Yes, Pakistan followed India into the nuclear club, but no other country in the region has. Rather than build their own bombs, most <span class="Underline">countries</span> faced with neighbours acquiring nuclear weapons have sought alliances and protection from others – most often the United States. Thus, contrary to popular wisdom, experience has been that most states do not build nuclear bombs, even when they have the opportunity and, seemingly, the motive to do so. If there is a norm of international conduct regarding nuclear weapons, it is a norm of non-proliferation. For every state that has developed nuclear weapons, there are dozens more, including Canada, that could have but did not. South Africa did but then gave them up. There are several, including Brazil, Argentina and Sweden, that went down the road toward nuclear weapons but stopped and went back. There are even a few – Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan – that inherited nuclear weapons when the Soviet Union collapsed but soon gave them up voluntarily.


=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]