[[toc]]
=Round 1= 
NIB - Econ and Heg, same as the one on the normal wiki except updated uniqueness.

=Round 2= 
2NR: Nietzsche K
=Round 3= 

=Round 4= 

=Round 5= 

=Round 6= 
==Adv 1== 
**US-Canada Relations are not resilient and are at a crossroads – action now is key**
**Burney and Hampson 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Derek H., and Fen Olser, Burney was Senior Strategic Advisor of Norton Rose, former Chief of Staff in the Office of the Prime Minister, and Canadian Ambassador to the US, Fen is the Chancellor’s Professor & Director of NPSIA, Professor of International Affairs , “How Obama Lost Canada,” Foreign Affairs, 6-21, http://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/137744/derek-h-burney-and-fen-osler-hampson/how-obama-lost-canada)</span>

Of course, the U.S.-Canadian relationship has had its rocky moments
AND
maintain an entrenched alliance but also about its capacity for steady global leadership.

**A new bridge is __critical__ to sustaining US-Canada relations –it is the most important issue**
**Robertson 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- former Canadian diplomat, Colin Robertson is a Senior Strategic Advisor for McKenna, Long and Aldridge LLP living in Ottawa, Canada and working with the Canadian Council of Chief Executives. He is Vice President and Senior Research Fellow at the Canadian Defence and Foreign Affairs Institute and a Distinguished Senior Fellow at the Norman Paterson School of International Affairs at Carleton University(June 22, 2011, “Bridging the Trade Divide,” http://www.themarknews.com/articles/5649-bridging-the-trade-divide/#.UVD0-hzbPg8)JCP</span>

__Working toward a shared vision, Canada and the U.S. need to make the New International Trade Crossing a top priority.__
Ever since Samuel de Champlain and his First Nations guides canoed down the St.
AND
border doesn’t get in the way of our shared vision and mutual prosperity.

**Regardless of how keystone negotiations end up it will have a negative impact on relations – the bridge is key to mitigate that and maintain the relationship**
**ACKERMAN 12 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">correspondent for Detroit Business News and Eminent Domain litigator (Alan, “NITC and Implications for Oil,” http://www.dbusiness.com/Blogs/Annual-2012/DITC-Implications-for-Oil/)JCP</span>

__The Detroit International Bridge Company court dispute and the proposed New International Trade Crossing are at the forefront of our media topics__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all too often.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The best way to obtain a feel for how to handle the bridge crossing issue is to start with a drive to Windsor. Hopefully, the driver will find himself at the terminus of the proposed exit for the new location and then that of the existing bridge. The new location is in a non-residential section far from the University of Windsor. The old bridge bisects the community, making Windsor aesthetically and physically fractured.</span>
Underlying all of this bridge disagreement is the process of international politics. How do
AND
, but America also needs oil, creating an extremely difficult balancing act.
**__The opposition maintained that simply kicking the Canadians in the teeth on Keystone clears everything up. However, Canadians have the choice of delivering their natural resources overseas rather than to the United States__**__.__
**__Kicking the Canadians in the teeth on the bridge hurts everyone__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The cost is not simply the damage to the City of Windsor (which is too much), but to those who drive the trucks and have to wait at the existing bridge entrances. Is this really the way we want to go?</span>

**Scenario One is War**
**The bridge is critical to exercising relations effectively in the future by creating a model – even if relations are resilient only the NITC makes them useful**
**Nelles 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Adjunct Assistant Professor, Department of Urban Affairs and Planning, Hunter College, City University of New York, Prof at University of Toronto (Jen, June 2011, “Cooperation in Crisis? An Analysis of Cross-Border Intermunicipal Relations in the Detroit-Windsor Region,” http://articulo.revues.org/2097)JCP</span>

The cities of Detroit, Michigan and Windsor, Ontario may be physically separated by
AND
of crisis in strengthening or mitigating borders in the cross-border context.



**Solves nuclear war – Canada relations result in global stability – best empirics**
**Ross 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD., professor of political science at Simon Fraser University (Autumn 2003, Douglas A., “Foreign Policy Challenges for Paul Martin: Canada's International Security Policy in an Era of American Hyperpower and Continental Vulnerability,” http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/40203885.pdf?acceptTC=true)JCP</span>

Over the past decade Canadians have been told repeatedly that their society and its foreign
AND
are deeply unhappy with Canadian opposition to their aggressive counter-proliferation effort.

**Scenario 2 is China –**

**Relations are key to ensure China’s rise does not upset international norms – success makes all future wars impossible**
**Gilley 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> –PhD., associate professor of political science in the Mark O. Hatfield school of government at Portland State University (Bruce, 2011, “Middle powers during great power transitions,” http://www.web.pdx.edu/~gilleyb/Gilley_MiddlePowersAndChina.pdf)JCP</span>

What is the fate of middle powers during the transition of great powers in the
AND
normative as well as structural—that supports the Canada-US relationship.

**Failure leads to global nuclear war**
**Buzan and Foot 2004**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Professor of International Relations at the London School of Economics and Political Science AND Professor of International Relations at St. Anthony College (Barry and Rosemary, Does China Matter? A Reassessment: Essays in Memory of Gerald Segal, ed. by B. Buzan and R. Foot, Questia, p. 145-147)</span>

The underlying argument in this section is that there is a strong link between the
AND
is strongly present in Asia, its influence also plays into this equation.
Indeed, if China is at odds with its neighbours then its position will be
AND
but its ability to play on the global stage would be seriously curtailed.
The task for this section is thus to examine the social and material forces in
AND
neighbours; and its relationships with the US and the other great powers.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">China's capabilities and the trajectory of its internal development</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Debates about China's capability and prospects for development can be placed within a matrix formed by two variables:</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• Does China get stronger (because its economic development continues successfully) or weaker (because its development runs into obstacles, or triggers socio-political instability)?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">• Does China become a malign, aggressive, threatening force in international society (because it becomes hypernationalist or fascist), or does it become more benign and cooperative (because economic development brings internal democratization and liberalization)?</span>
If China's development falters and it becomes weak, then it will neither dominate its
AND
of just such a sequence was what underpinned Gerry's concern to promote constrainment.

**Scenario 3 is the border:**
**Congestion in Detroit not only increases vulnerabilities but it also blocks other key improvements in border security**
**CRO 10 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">congressional research office (September 2010, “Canada-U.S. Relations - Border Security: Trade and Commercial Concerns58,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA529116)JCP</span>
Issue Definition The aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11
AND
proposed rival bridge would divert traffic (and tolls) from his bridge.

**Specifically – cooperation on border issues is key to prevent WMD and Bioterror attacks – it’s the most likely attack vector**
**Ross 3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – PhD., professor of political science at Simon Fraser University (Autumn 2003, Douglas A., “Foreign Policy Challenges for Paul Martin: Canada's International Security Policy in an Era of American Hyperpower and Continental Vulnerability,” [[http://www.jstor.org/stable/pdfplus/40203885.pdf?acceptTC=true)JCP]]</span>

CONTINENTAL VULNERABILITIES Canada has been named publicly by al-Qaeda as a legitimate target
AND
porous, underpaid (or unpaid), demoralized Russian military and public service.

**Direct attacks on the US are almost impossible – but a lack of cooperation on border issues makes Canada the one modern attack vector**
**Willschick 2/21**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/13 - graduate of the MA program in European, Russian and Eurasian Studies at the University of Toronto’s Munk School of Global Affairs. He also holds an MA degree in political science from York University and a BaH from York University’s Glendon College. (Aaron, February 21, 2013, “A Lack of Coordination: The U.S., Canada, and the Threat of Maritime Attacks,” [[http://cimsec.org/a-lack-of-coordination-the-u-s-canada-and-the-threat-of-maritime-attacks/)JCP]]</span>

Since the attacks of September 11, 2001, border security between Canada and the
AND
for a clear exchange of ideas, best practices, and standardized threat conceptualizations


**Otherwise lashout causes global nuclear war**
**Ayson 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Professor of Strategic Studies, Director of Strategic Studies in New Zealand, Senior Research Associate with Oxford’s Centre for International Studies (Robert Ayson, July 2010, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Studies in Conflict and Terrorism, Volume 33, Issue 7, pages 571-593)</span>

Washington's early response to a terrorist nuclear attack on its own soil might also raise
AND
consultation from Washington that the latter found itself unable or unwilling to provide.


**And bioweapons cause extinction**
**Matheny 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">- research associate with the Future of Humanity Institute at Oxford University, PhD in economics from Hopkins(Jason, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” Risk Analysis, Vol. 27, No. 5, 2007 www.physics.harvard.edu/~wilson/pmpmta/Mahoney_extinction.pdf//MGD)</span>
Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be bioterrorism. The knowledge needed
AND
systems to respond to pandemics (Lam, Franco, & Shuler, 2006

==Adv 2== 
**The Bridge is the most important issue for Canada’s economy**
**Battagello 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Reporter for the Windsor star, citing head of Canadian Transportation Ministry (2010, Dave, “DRIC survives changing of guard,” http://buildthedricnow.com/2010/08/25/dric-survives-changing-of-guard/)JCP</span>

Canada’s $550-million offer to pay Michigan’s share of the new Windsor-
AND
sides of the border with the least environmental impact and most advantages.”

**1). Increasing trade volumes**
**MFB 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Michigan Farm Bureau (10/10/12, New International Trade Crossing (NITC) - Frequently Asked Questions, http://www.michfb.com/files/counties/73/NITC%20FAQ.pdf) EL</span>


Q: Why is a new bridge even necessary? A: More than 8
AND
than 237,000 in Michigan are directly tied to trade with Canada.

**2) Redundancy –any disruption cost 1/2 billion dollars per day**
**Toledo Blade 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ohio news outlet, citing Kristin Dziczeck director of the industry group at the Center for Automotive Research and Roy Norton the consul general of Canada in Detroit </span>__(__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">March 22, 2012, “Span called vital trade artery,” http://buildthedricnow.com/2012/03/22/span-called-vital-trade-artery/)JCP</span>

DETROIT – The Ambassador Bridge is a vital artery for trucks, and that means
AND
that crossing,” said Ms. Dziczek of the Center for Automotive Research.


**3) Detroit-Windsor region**
**SEMCOG 09**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—Southeast Michigan Council of Governments (“Economic Impact of the Border: Detroit/ Windsor”, Fall, http://www.semcog.org/uploadedFiles/Programs_and_Projects/Transportation/Borders/Economic%20Impact%20of%20the%20Border_web.pdf) EL</span>
Capacity, Congestion, and Delays • The importance of international trade continues to grow
AND
. • This report specifically focuses on the host county –Wayne County.

**A weak economy is directly responsible for a decline in Canada’s middle power status and global leadership – growth directly corresponds with global power**
**Bothwell 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Thesis presented in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the degree Masters of International Studies at the University of Stellenbosch (March 2011, Alice, “Can Canada Still Be Considered a Middle Power?”)JCP</span>

3.4 Canada’s Decline From Middle Power Status Canada’s identity as a Middle Power
AND
limited resources his government made available for foreign, aid and defence matters.


**That’s key to resolving the conflict over Kashmir**
**KCC 1995**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--The Kashmiri-Canadian Council (KCC) is a non-profit organisation dedicated to promote the Kashmiri cause, both within Canada and internationally (“KASHMIR DISPUTE: A NUCLEAR HOT SPOT IN SOUTH ASIA”, http://www.kashmiri-cc.ca/misc/TEAMCANA.htm#role1) EL</span>

When the Kashmir dispute erupted in 1947­1948, Canada championed the stand that
AND
parties, and thereby, lay the groundwork for peace in South Asia.


**Specifically, Canada is key to encourage India to participate in talks and to strengthen the civilian government in Pakistan**
**Clark 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- writes about foreign affairs from Ottawa for the Globe and Mail (“Canada must help strengthen Pakistan's civilian rule”, Campbell, 9/10, http://m.theglobeandmail.com/news/politics/canada-must-help-strengthen-pakistans-civilian-rule/article625838/?service=mobile) EL</span>

Three terror bombings in Mumbai immediately turned suspicion on groups that have been sponsored by
AND
and pressing the world to see its intelligence agency as a global problem.

**Tensions uniquely high now**
**Harris 1/22—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">reporter for the New York Times (“India Warns Kashmiris to Prepare for Nuclear War”, Gardiner, http://www.nytimes.com/2013/01/23/world/asia/indian-officials-advise-preparations-for-possible-war.html?_r=0) EL</span>

NEW DELHI — Indian officials are advising residents of strife-torn Kashmir to prepare
AND
be held in Pakistan by May and in India by sometime in 2014.


**Extinction.**
**Fai 2001** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Ghulam Nabi Fai, Kashmiri American Council, July 8, 2001, Washington Times)</span>

The foreign policy of the United States in South Asia should move from the lackadaisical
AND
an inclination to ratify an impending Fissile Material/Cut-off Convention.

==1AC Plan== 
**The United States federal government should implement a substantial increase in its capital spending in the United States necessary for a new border crossing to Canada.**
==1AC Solvency== 
**Only the federal government can create the bridge – presidential permit, coast guard permit, state department approval and the International Bridge Act**
**State of Michigan 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—“NEW INTERNATIONAL TRADE CROSSING: Presidential Permit Application”, 6/18, http://www.state.gov/documents/organization/194997.pdf) EL</span>

Presidential Permit: The construction and maintenance of facilities at the U.S.
AND
this agreement. This application is a formal request for State Department approval.

**FHWA matching funds are key to the project – otherwise Canada won’t lead through investment in Michigan**
**Levin 12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—US Congressman from Michigan (“Letter in Support of the New International Trade Crossing (NITC) project”, Sany, 1/18, http://levin.house.gov/letter-support-new-international-trade-crossing-nitc-project) EL</span>

As you prepare for the 2012 session of the Michigan Legislature, we write to
AND
and guarantees safe, secure, and efficient commerce across our northern border.


=Round 7= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]