[[toc]]
=Cap K= 
==1NC Generic== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Infrastructure investment is a tool of the capitalist state—people, values and goods all become commodities to be transported</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Giddens and Held 82 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Anthony and David; M.A. and Ph.D. in economics, Prof. at Cambridge, Director of the London School of Economics, he has 15 honorary degrees; Master of University College, Durham, professor of politics and international relations at Durham University; “Classes, Power and Conflict: Classical and Contemporary Debates”; Pg. 253)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> 7. Policies which pursue the goal of reorganizing, maintaining and generalizing exchange relationships </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> of the capitalist state against the obstructive resistance of the capitalist class itself.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Capitalism justifies the neo-liberal mentality of domination. Leads to a save to kill mentality, making all other forms of violence inevitable and will lead extinction. Empirics are on our side.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Santos, 03 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Professor of Sociology at the School of Economics, University of Coimbra (Portugal), Distinguished Legal Scholar at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Law School, Director of the Center for Social Studies of the University of Coimbra, [Boaventura de Sousa, “Collective Suicide?” Bad Subjects, Issue 63, April, [[http://www.ces.uc.pt/opiniao/bss/072en.php]]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> According to Franz Hinkelammert, the West has repeatedly been under the illusion that it </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> machine of democracy and liberty turns into a machine of horror and destruction.</span>

**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Alternative Text: prefer not to engage in capitalism by voting negative</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> This act is not merely a negative rejection, but an active refusal to participate within the ideological coordinates of the aff – this constitutes the foundation of revolutionary politics</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Zizek 06 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(Slavoj. The Parallax View. Cambridge, The MIT Press, 2006. 381-382)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> And this brings us back to Melville's Bartleby. His "I would prefer not </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> Law when its place it emptied of all its obscene superego content. 381</span>
==2NC Ethics== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;">Personal ethical obligation to reject capitalism- Capitalism dehumanizes everyone within it’s bounds. It makes an individual see another as a potential for profit. To be ethical one must recognize the humanity of another. The lens of capitalism makes this literally impossible</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 14.6667px;"> Morgareidge 98 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">(prof phil @ Lewis & clark college 1998 (Clayton, “Why capitalism is evil” [[http://www.lclark.edu/%7Eclayton/commentaries/evil.html|http://www.lclark.edu/~clayton/commentaries/evil.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> In recent commentaries for the Old Mole I have been trying to make capitalism look </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> capitalism is on the table will ethics have a seat at the table.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]