[[toc]]
=1ACs= 

== == 

==Japan Navy== 

1ac University of Texas Longhorn Classic
Text: The United States federal government should end nearly all of its naval presence in Japan.

Advantage 1 is JAPAN
Rising public opposition in Japan to US naval presence is straining the relationship – a substantial reduction of presence is critical to lay the foundation for the future of the U.S./Japan alliance
Shorrock 10-4-2010 (http://www.ipsnewsasia.net/bridgesfromasia/node/21, “Public Pressure to Shape US Military presence in Region)
A combination of public opposition….sure Japan should take on a military role."

And – U.S. Naval presence is a particularly volatile issue
McCurry 6 (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, __http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan__)DR
The decision to hand the sailor…..to the streets in protest.

And – Japanese public opposition matters – the formation of new Japanese foreign policy guarantees that public opposition will translate into action
Mereand 9 (Richard, National Security Analyst with the Association with the United States Army’s (AUSA’s) Institute of Land Warfare, 12-29-09, The Evolution of the U.S.-Japan Alliance, __http://www.ausa.org/publications/ilw/ilw_pubs/nationalsecuritywatch/Documents/NSW09-4.pdf__)DR
The Democratic Party of Japan (DPJ) ….. can strongly assert Japan’s will.”3

And – the U.S./Japan alliance is unsustainable as long as the Japanese people see their country as a base for U.S. adventurism, the plan is key
Blumenthal No Date (Dan, Resident Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, No Date Given, The Revival of the U.S.-Japanese Alliance, __http://www.aei.org/outlook/22027__)DR
However, the United States cannot take …..support for Tokyo's independent strategic concerns.

And – These political tensions jeopardize the effectiveness of the alliance.
Kyodo News International 9-16-2010 (http://newsystocks.com/news/3697375, “FOCUS, Progress in US-Japan Relations hinge on Kan’s leadership”)
Naoto Kan's victory in Tuesday's presidential …..whether it's diplomacy or otherwise.'


And – This makes cooperation over a litany of issues impossible
The Atlantic Council of the United States 2002 (http://www.rips.or.jp/english/publications/special_reports/pdf/new_frontiers.pdf, “ New Frontiers for US-Japan Security Relations”)
Reducing Friction in the Alliance. Three problem ….. in the absence of such a relationship.

And –relations are key to Asian stability – prevents multiple nuclear conflicts throughout Asia
INSS 2k (Institute for National Strategic Studies – National Defense University, The United States and Japan: Advancing Toward a Mature Partnership, October, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/strforum/SR_01/SR_Japan.htm)
Major war in Europe is inconceivable for ….. redefining and reinvigorating bilateral security ties.
Advantage 2 is GREAT POWER CONFLICT

US naval presence in Japan will escalate into great power conflicts with China and Russia
Rozoff 11-4 (Rick, author and geopolitical analyst, 11-4-10, Washington-Tokyo Axis: U.S. Supports Japan, Confronts China And Russia Over Island Disputes, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=21769)DR
In a six-day span the U.S. State Department has ….. 1950s, though now in an Asia with several nuclear powers.

We’ll isolate two scenarios:

First US-China War

Specifically, the development and deployment of the DF-21D guarantees a fatal naval miscalculation between the US and China.
Yoshihara ‘10 (Dr. Toshi, Associate Professor in the Strategy and Policy Department at the Naval War College, former Visiting Professor at the U.S. Air War College, Ph.D. International Relations, The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University, M.A. International Relations, School of Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins University, B.S. International Relations, School of Foreign Service, Georgetown University, 7-1-2010, “Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing,” Naval War College Review, (... denotes non-US-ASCII text omitted) http://www.faqs.org/periodicals/201007/2046727461.html)
In recent years, defense analysts in the …..militarily, against Beijing's emerging missile strategy.

That causes Extinction.
Straits Times, 2000 (June 25)
Conflict on such a scale would embroil ….. would see the destruction of civilisation.

And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.
Shambaugh, 5 (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)
Some observers in the United States, however, ….. considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs.

Scenario Two – RUSSIA
Sour US-Russian relations embolden Syria
Ghattas, 08 (Sam F. Ghattas. “Syria takes advantage of Russia-U.S. tensions; Iran may be next” Associated Press, Aug 26, 2008, http://www.startribune.com/templates/Print_This_Story?sid=27439334)
Syria's President Bashar Assad has publicly stepped ….. harder against Israel and the U.S."

This opportunity translates into Syrian Iskander Missiles, evoking aggression and making war inevitable with Israel
Kass, 05 (Lee- analyst in the research and analysis division of Science Applications International Corporation; “Syria after Lebanon: The Growing Syrian Missile Threat” Middle East Quarterly. Fall 2005. http://www.meforum.org/article/755)
The Syrian regime's efforts to upgrade ….. and its ability to wage a future war

Syrian missile strike snowballs to nuclear Armageddon
Strategic Analysis, 2k [Sharad Joshi. “Israel’s Nuclear Policy: A Cost-Benefit Analysis” Strategic Analysis: A Monthly Journal of the IDSA March 2000 (Vol. XXIII No. 12) http://www.ciaonet.org/olj/sa/sa_00jos01.html]
The Syrian chemical arsenal ….. be ripe for a nuclear Armageddon

==South Korea Navy== 

===GDS Version=== 

Plan: The United States federal government should terminate the presence of its navy in the Republic of Korea.

Advantage 1 is Jeju Island:

The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats

The Times Record, 10 (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,__http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt__)

I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to …on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.


And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem

Jeju Weekly, 9 (November 26, __http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426__)

Some of Jeju’s treasures areclearly visible, …. It is not just imperativefor environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.


And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest

Red Orbit, 10 (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,__http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/__)

Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and …who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."


And – Extinction

Craig, 3(Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)

Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for …wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.


Advantage two: China

Deteriorating relations between the U.S. and China are paving the way for conflict. In particular, strike-group naval exercises in the waters surrounding South Korea guarantee confrontation.

Rozoff, 8/16/2010 (Rick, Author and Geopolitical Analyst, “U.S.-China Conflict: From War of Words to Talk of War”, Eurasia Review,__http://www.eurasiareview.com/201008157048/us-china-conflict-from-war-of-words-to-talk-of-war.html__)

Relations between the U.S. and China have been steadily deteriorating …The noose is tightening around China and the nation’s military knows it.


And – These naval exercises doom our ability to influence China’s emergence towards a source of stability and peace in the region. Using our naval presence in South Korea to support a maritime containment strategy of China destroys relations and will dangerously escalate tensions.

Reuters, 8/13/2010 (Chinese Admiral Says U.S. Drill Courts Confrontation, __http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67B11W20100813?type=politicsNews__)

A senior Chinese military strategist called planned U.S. naval … can see that this carries something of a warning to China," wrote Yang.


And – China’s rise as a regional power is inevitable – the question is whether the U.S. and China cooperate to resolve global problems or compete through adherence to out-dated concepts of deterrence. Only the plan facilitates a healthy, stable relationship that is necessary to avoid all-out war.

Yi, 8/13/2010 (Yang, Rear Admiral and Former Director of the Institute for Strategic Studies at the People’s Liberation Army National Defense University, Cold War Mindset Harms Peace, __http://www.hrana.org/articles.asp__)

The recent decision by the United States to involve its … if the two powers really want to avoid confrontation.

And – Failure to allow China to rise peacefully ensures catastrophic nuclear war.

Eland, 5 (Ivan, Coexisting With A Rising China, April 11, HTTP:WWW.INDEPENDENT.ORG/NEWSROOM/ARTICLE.ASP?ID=1494)

Instead of emulating the policies of pre-World War I Britain … future catastrophicwar or even a nuclear conflagration.


And – Escalation is guaranteed. US-China war causes extinction.

Straits Times, 2k(June 25)

Conflict on such a scale would embroil other countries far and ….we would see the destruction of civilisation.


And – Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict

Reuters, 8/17/2010 (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”, __http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817__)

The game of military bluff that China and the United States … the People's Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.


And – Independent of direct U.S.-China war, good relations prevent multiple scenarios for nuclear conflict throughout Asia

Conable and Lampton, 93(Barber B, President Emeritus of the World Bank, David, President of the National Committee, China: the Coming Power, Foreign Affairs, December/January, Lexis)

Regionally American interests are both numerous and … of the increasing importance the region attaches to building positive ties to the P.R.C.


And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.

Dibb, 1 (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)

The areas of maximum danger and … Forum have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.


And – Their deterrence disad is a non-starter. Deterrence will inevitably fail between the U.S. and China – we can either peacefully move away from attempting to deter China now, or we must accept the inevitable, catastrophic collapse of our deterrent relationship in the short-term future.

Sayers, 10 (Eric, Master of Science Candidate in the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University, “Miliatry Dissuasion: A Framework for Influencing PLA Procurement Trends”, NDU Press, __http://www.ndu.edu/press/military-dissuasion.html__)

The PLA believes America's ability to project power is … observed almost a decade ago, deterrence alone cannot suffice as the guiding mantra of U.S. defense strategy in the Asia-Pacific.7


And – All of their deterrence and containment good arguments are based on flawed methodology. The rise of China does not threaten U.S. power or make conflict inevitable.

Shambaugh, 5 (David, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, International Security, Winter)

Some observers in the United States, however, see China’s Asian … These are essential points to bear in mind when considering China’s new ascendance in Asian affairs. 

===Blue Key - New Jeju Advantage=== 

The U.S. is about to build a naval base on Jeju that would devastate marine and coral habitats

The Times Record, 10 (“South Korean Villagers Say ‘No!’ to U.S. Navy Base”, July 2,http://www.timesrecord.com/articles/2010/07/02/opinion/commentaries/doc4c2e2493e0dfe283807936.txt)
I have recently returned from a weeklong trip to … on the rocks at Pemaquid Point? I bet Mainers would fight to the bitter end.



And – Jeju Island’s marine biodiversity is uniquely important – destruction of the corals would collapse the ocean ecosystem
Jeju Weekly, 9 (November 26, http://jejuweekly.com/news/articleView.html?idxno=426)
Some of Jeju’s treasures are clearly visible, …. It is not just imperative for environmental reasons, but for tourism, which affects the socio-economics of the local communities.


And – Destruction of corals not only collapses entire marine ecosystems, but also causes global famine and severe political unrest
Red Orbit, 10 (Space, Science, Health & Technology News Source, March 26,http://www.redorbit.com/news/science/1842159/coral_reef_extinction_could_have_catastrophic_effect/)
Coral reefs are slowly becoming extinct and … who are facing hunger, and this is just going to aggravate the situation. We will not be able to maintain food security around the world."

And – Extinction
Craig, 3 (Robin Kundis, Associate Professor at Indiana University’s School of Law, McGeorge Law Review, Winter, 34 McGeorge L. Rev. 155, Lexis)
Biodiversity and ecosystem function arguments for … wherever possible - even if a few fishers go out of business as a result.

And – The Jeju base will trigger an uncontrollable naval arms race throughout the Asia-Pacific region ensuring conflict.
Cha 10 (Kyoungeun, Foreign Policy in Focus, “Jeju and a Naval Arms Race in Asia”,http://www.fpif.org/articles/jeju_and_a_naval_arms_race_in_asia)
The Jeju naval base is a likely bone of … could escalate into a naval arms race in the Asia-Pacific region.

And – A naval arms race in Northeast Asia would guarantee catastrophic miscalculations.
Strait Times 9 (November 18, http://www.asianewsnet.net/news.php?id=8691&sec=3)
A naval arms race that could have …, he warned: "The consequence of the navy's build-up is the increasing probability of accidents and incidents at sea."

And – These are the most probable scenarios for great-power nuclear escalation.
Dibb, 1 (Paul, Professor at the Australian National Universtiy, Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College Review, Winter, HTTP:WWW.NWC.NAVY.MIL/PRESS/REVIEW/2001/WINTER/ART2-W01.HTM)
The areas of maximum danger and … have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.

And – A Jeju naval base would collapse peace on the Korean Peninsula.
UNCPD 7 (United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia, May 22, “The establishment of a naval base in Jeju would lead to the militarization on Jeju Island”, http://blog.peoplepower21.org/English/19790)
Our concerns that the establishment … of Jeju will help make the residents' lives and furthermore the Korea Peninsula better.

And – This will destroy the planet
Africa News, 99 (“Third World War: Watch the Koreas”, October 25, Lexis)
If there is one place today … normalising relations with North Korea.

=2ac Stuff= 

==Japan Navy 2ac Stuff== 

===2ac - Case=== 

====**Great Power Wars**==== 

**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable**
**Ghani 8-29** (Rizwan, author for the Pakistan Observer, 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)DR

Following American Navy’s joint …. to China’s naval power.


**US maritime hegemony has failed.**
**Asia News 9-24** (Asia News, Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas, 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas , http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR

Milan - The recent conflict between …. and the beginning of the Chinese?


**Deterrence fails in the context of China – modernization.**
**Global Times 6-8** (global Times, 6-8-10, Carrier Casts a Shadow over Northeast Asia,
Asahi Shimbun 6-21 (Asahi Shimbun, Chinese news station, China Seeks to Neutralize Japan-U.S. Treaty, http://www.asahi.com/english/TKY201006200174.html)DR

A rapid buildup of nuclear …. gone cold on the idea.



**The US would lose a war vs. China**
**Yoshihara 10** (Toshi, associate professor in the Strategy and Policy Department and an affiliate member of the China Maritime Studies Institute at the Naval War College, Summer 2010, Chinese Missile Strategy and the U.S. Naval Presence in Japan: The Operational View from Beijing, http://www.andrewerickson.com/2010/05/chinese-missile-strategy-and-the-u-s-naval-presence-in-japan-the-operational-view-from-beijing/)DR

In recent years, defense analysts …. missile campaign.

===2ac - Add-ons=== 

====**Rape**==== 

**Naval presence at Yokosuka fuels rape and public opposition**
**McCurry 6** (Justin, The Guardian, 1-7-06, Murder fuels Japan's hostility to US navy presence, http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2006/jan/07/usa.japan)DR

The decision to hand the ….on to the streets in protest.

**Militarized rape is grounded in dichotomies of victory and defeat – D-rule**
**ENLOE 00** (Chloe, “Maneuvers: The International Politics of Militarizing Women's Lives,” 2000, p111) SLV

There are as many different …. institutions of organized violence. 

===DAs=== 

====Politics==== 

It’s compartmentalized
A. No internal link – external policies like the plan or Obama’s polcap are irrelevant to passage
Dickinson, 9 – professor of political science at Middlebury College and taught previously at Harvard University where he worked under the supervision of presidential scholar Richard Neustadt (5/26/09, Matthew, Presidential Power: A NonPartisan Analysis of Presidential Politics, “Sotomayor, Obama and Presidential Power,” http://blogs.middlebury.edu/presidentialpower/2009/05/26/sotamayor-obama-and-presidential-power/, JMP)

As for Sotomayor, from here ….measured through legislative boxscores.

C. Obama’s influence can’t sway votes – other issues are more important
Edwards 9 – Distinguished Professor of Political Science at Texas A&M University, holds the George and Julia Blucher Jordan Chair in Presidential Studies and has served as the Olin Professor of American Government at Oxford (George, “The Strategic President”, Printed by the Princeton University Press, pg. 149-150)MGM

Even presidents who …. a minority in each chamber.

Congress disregards the navy, it’s irrelevant to the agenda
Forbes 10-25 (Forbes, Major US news source, 10-25-10, Where are the Carriers, http://blogs.forbes.com/stevecohen/2010/10/25/where-are-the-carriers/)DR

As I conducted my investigation, I kept …. support those operations simultaneously.

The plan would be a major win for Obama
Yuan, 8/20/2010 (Jingdong, Associate Professor at the Center for International Security Studies at the University of Sydney, Asia Times, http://www.atimes.com/atimes/China/LH20Ad01.html)

US-South Korean naval ….strategic rivalry for decades to come.

Plan would be massively popular – spending and military politics
Meyer 9 (Carlton, Former Marine Corps General, 2009, Outdated US Military Bases in Japan, http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm)DR

After his election, President …. them from surprise attack.

The plan is massively popular
Meyer 9 (Carlton, Former Marine Corps General, 2009, Outdated US Military Bases in Japan, http://www.g2mil.com/Japan-bases.htm)DR

An obvious new homeport for ….the aircraft from Atsugi.

===Deterrence=== 

Marines in Okinawa are perceived as the best deterrent
Jitsuro 10 – (3/15/10 “The Will and Imagination to Return to Common Sense: Toward a Restructuring of the US-Japan Alliance” pg online @ [http://japanfocus.org/-Terashima-Jitsuro/3321]/)

What about the threat from …. Asia that also encompasses Russia, China, South Korea, and the US.


Ground troops are comparatively more important
Kim 99—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles)

Nevertheless, a drawback of …. which could harm U.S.-China relations.

U.S. will still preserve deterrence through long-range strike capabilities
Espiritu, 6 – Commander, U.S. Navy (3/15/06, Commander Emilson M. Espiritu, “The Eagle Heads Home: Rethinking National Security Policy for The Asia-Pacific Region,” http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448817&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf, JMP)

Even though we are already reducing the ….and a network of access arrangements. 30


==South Korea Navy 2ac Stuff== 

===2ac Topicality=== 

====Substantial==== 

1.) We Meet – the navy is a substantial portion of U.S. military presence in South Korea

Printz, 2006 (Scott A., Lieutenant Colonel in the U.S. Army, Master of Strategic Studies from the U.S. Army War College, U.S. Army War College Strategy Research Project, March 15, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA448748&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)

THE U.S. HAS A VITAL …. AND ENSURE THE FUTURE OF A UNIFIED KOREA.


2.) We Meet – joint naval exercises with South Korea will involve ninety thousand troops

Ghani, 8/29/2010 (Rizwan, News Analyst, Time For China’s Blue Water Navy, The Pakistan Observer, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)

YELLOW SEA DIPLOMACY AND …., THERE ARE QUESTIONS ABOUT IT.



4.) Their interpretation is arbitrary –

A.) No accurate figures are available for the number of military personnel in South Korea

DOD, 3/31/2010 (Department of Defense Active Duty Military Personnel Strengths by Regional Area and by Country, http://siadapp.dmdc.osd.mil/personnel/MILITARY/history/hst1003.pdf)

(INSERTED CHART HERE)


5.) Counter Interpretation – the Aff must be a sizeable reduction in the presence missions and activities of the U.S. military

We have definitional support –

‘Military presence’ means the totality of U.S. instruments of power deployed in presence missions overseas – it includes forces stationed afloat and those that are on temporary deployment

Blechman et al, 1997 (Barry, President of DFI International, formerly head positions with the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget, “Military Present Abroad in a New Era: the Role of Airpower”, Strategic Review, Spring, p. 14)

THE HIGHLY COMPLEX ….AND SUSTAINMENT CAPABILITIES.”2

And – ‘Military presence’ involves cooperative activities including port visits, joint training, and military exercises, all of which our plan substantially reduces

Medeiros and Yuan, 2001 (Evan S., Jing-dong, Senior Research Associates in the East Asia Non-proliferation Programme at the Monterey Institute Center for Non-proliferation Studies, “A U.S. Military presence in Asia: Offshore Balancer or Local Sheriff?”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, January)

THE US MILITARY PRESENCE ….EDUCATION, AND MILITARY EXERCISES WITH COUNTRIES SUCH AS MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE.

And – This is the definition used by the Department of Defense

DOD, 1995 (Department of Defense, Joint Doctrine for Military Operations Other Than War, Joint Pub 3-07, http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/others/jp-doctrine/jp3_07.pdf)

B. FORWARD PRESENCE. FORWARD …. COMMANDER COMMITS TO MOOTW.

And – “Substantially” means of a considerable size

Collins English Dictionary, 2009 (Complete & Unabridged 10th Edition, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/substantially)

SUBSTANTIAL (SƏBˈSTÆNƩƏL) — ADJ SUB'STANTIALLY — ADV 1. OF A CONSIDERABLE SIZE OR VALUE: SUBSTANTIAL FUNDS

====Land Forces==== 

3.) Counter Interpretation – ‘Military presence’ means the totality of U.S. instruments of power deployed in presence missions overseas. This includes the navy

Blechman et al, 1997 (Barry, President of DFI International, formerly head positions with the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget, “Military Present Abroad in a New Era: the Role of Airpower”, Strategic Review, Spring, p. 14)

THE HIGHLY COMPLEX NATURE … AND SUSTAINMENT CAPABILITIES.”2


And – ‘Military presence’ includes naval activities such as port-visits and joint-exercises

Medeiros and Yuan, 2001 (Evan S., Jing-dong, Senior Research Associates in the East Asia Non-proliferation Programme at the Monterey Institute Center for Non-proliferation Studies, “A U.S. Military presence in Asia: Offshore Balancer or Local Sheriff?”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, January)

THE US MILITARY PRESENCE … MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE.

“Military” includes the Navy, Marines, Army, Air Force, and Coast Guard And – The Neg’s argument is wrong even when the word ‘military’ is used by itself

Random History, 2007 (History Website; all authors have at least a Bachelors degree and most have advanced degrees, “Pluralism, Expansionism, and Democracy: A History of the U.S. Military”, December 14, http://www.randomhistory.com/1-50/020military.html)

In many ways, the history … always been this way.
====**In = within territorial limits**==== 

1.) We meet – navy personnel operate on and throughout the peninsula planning and implementing operations, exercises, and port-visits

Global Security, 2005 (April 26, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/agency/navy/cnfk.htm)

COMMANDER, U.S. NAVAL ….ORDNANCE STORAGE AND RESERVES.


2.) We meet – the waters surrounding Japan are part of its territory

West’s Encyclopedia of American Law, 2008 (2nd Edition, http://legal-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/Territorial+sea)

TERRITORIAL WATERS THE …. TERRITORIAL SEA BY 1988.



3.) Counter Interpretation – the Aff must reduce presence missions that involve the U.S. military with the host state

We have definitional support –

‘Military presence’ means the totality of U.S. instruments of power deployed in presence missions overseas

Blechman et al, 1997 (Barry, President of DFI International, formerly head positions with the Department of Defense, the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, and the Office of Management and Budget, “Military Present Abroad in a New Era: the Role of Airpower”, Strategic Review, Spring, p. 14)

THE HIGHLY COMPLEX NATURE OF …. INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUSTAINMENT CAPABILITIES.”2


And – ‘Military presence’ involves port visits and joint exercises

Medeiros and Yuan, 2001 (Evan S., Jing-dong, Senior Research Associates in the East Asia Non-proliferation Programme at the Monterey Institute Center for Non-proliferation Studies, “A U.S. Military presence in Asia: Offshore Balancer or Local Sheriff?”, Jane’s Intelligence Review, January)

THE US MILITARY PRESENCE …. SUCH AS MALAYSIA AND SINGAPORE.


And – ‘In’ expresses involvement with

Oxford English Dictionary, 2010 (http://www.oxforddictionaries.com/view/entry/m_en_gb0403700?rskey=Qaqm9O&result=4#m_en_gb0403700)

IN PRONUNCIATION…. OR INVOLVEMENT
====**Subsets**==== 

**3.) Counter Interpretation – ‘substantially’ means largely, not wholly**

**Merriam-Websters Online, 2010 (http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/substantially)**

SUBSTANTIAL NOUN
SUB•STAN•TI•AL•I•TY\-ˌSTAN(T)-SHĒ-ˈA-LƏ-TĒ\ NOUN
SUB•STAN•TIAL•LY\-ˈSTAN(T)-SH(Ə-)LĒ\ ADVERB
: BEING LARGELY BUT NOT WHOLLY THAT WHICH IS SPECIFIED <A SUBSTANTIAL LIE>


===2ac - Case=== 

====**China**==== 

**Their general impact defense does not apply – despite economic interdependence, naval missteps and miscalculations will ignite major conflict.**
**Reuters, 8/17/2010** (“China and U.S. Playing Risky Game on the High Seas”,http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE67G10J20100817)

The game of military bluff ….Daily said in a commentary on Tuesday.

**US will not retain preeminent naval dominance forever.**
**AFP 9** (AFP, Associated Press, 3-22-10, China tells Japan it wants Aircraft Carrier,__http://www.google.com/hostednews/afp/article/ALeqM5i1VgupeIW5R1tIsnjTeUXW8oZlNw__)DR

BEIJING (AFP) — China will not remain …. patrol boat to the region.

**The only thing that naval presence deters is good relations with China.**
**AFP 9-1** (Associated Foreign Press, 9-1-10, China Launches War Games in Yellow Sea, http://news.smh.com.au/breaking-news-world/china-launches-war-games-in-yellow-sea-20100901-14mxv.html)DR

China has launched live…. Korea's closest ally and trade partner.


**Sending a U.S. aircraft carrier to the Yellow Sea would uniquely trigger conflict**
**Hawkins, 2010** (William R., Consultant Specializing in International Economic and National Security Issues, Former Economics Professor and Former Congressional Staff Member, Family Security Matters, July 27,http://www.familysecuritymatters.org/publications/id.6857/pub_detail.asp)

To claim and defend ….decisions about where to deploy its forces.

**Beijing condemns US Navy presence – heightens tensions and causes retaliation**
**Washington Times 8-30** (Washington Times, leading American reporting station, 8-30-10, China to Conduct Live-Ammo Drills in Yellow Sea,http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/aug/29/china-to-conduct-live-ammo-drills-in-yellow-sea/)DR
BEIJING | China said on Sunday its navy will ….harms me, I must harm them."

**Deployment of the USS George Washington to the Yellow Sea would be seen as particularly aggressive – it’s the key internal link**
**People Forum, 8/6/2010** (http://www.peopleforum.cn/viewthread.php?tid=22015)
As tensions escalate on the Korean ….will definitely irk Beijing.

**Aircraft carrier in the Yellow Sea is key – it would put Beijing in striking distance**
**Associated Press, 2010** (August 5, http://www.cleveland.com/world/index.ssf/2010/08/chinese_aircraft-carrier-kille.html)
Nothing projects U.S. global ….range of U.S. F-18 warplanes.

**Deterrence failure and rise of China inevitable**
**Ghani 8-29** (Rizwan, author for the Pakistan Observer, 8-29-10, Time for China’s Blue Water Navy, http://pakobserver.net/detailnews.asp?id=49512)DR
Following American Navy’s ….add to China’s naval power.

**US maritime hegemony has failed.**
**Asia News 9-24** (Asia News, Asian News Source, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas, 9-24-10, Japan: China: Us: The Senkaku Diaoyu conflict and the end of U.S. supremacy on the seas ,http://www.speroforum.com/site/article.asp?id=40324&t=Japan:++China:++Us:+++The+Senkaku+Diaoyu+conflict+and+the+end+of+U.S.+supremacy+on+the+seas)DR
Milan - The recent conflict ….and the beginning of the Chinese?

**US-China relations threatened by negative campaign politics**
**Zeliff 10/24** (Bill, former congressman for the 1st Congressional District, US-China relationship threatened by negative campaign politics, 10/24/10, accessed 10/24/10, http://www.nashuatelegraph.com/opinionperspectives/889287-263/us-china-relationship-threatened-by-negative-campaign-politics.html)
Political campaigns bring ….of the U.S.-China relationship. 

=====**A2: China War Good**===== 

**Turn: Chinese space technologies undermine U.S. hegemony – disrupts balance of power in East Asia and causes Chinese development of ASATs.**
**Murray and Antonellis ’03 (William Murray, analyst at Science Applications International Corporation specializing in East Asia, Robert Antonellis, analyst with the U.S. government, Orbis, “China’s Space Program” Autumn, 2003)**

**In the near future, the also intends….military forces that depend upon it., 21**

**Ground troops are comparatively more important -**
**Kim 99—Associate Professor, Institute of Foreign Affairs (Sung, U.S. Military Presence in a Unified Korea, www.cap.lmu.de/transatlantic/download/kim.doc, AMiles)**
**Nevertheless, a drawback of this scenario….could harm U.S.-China relations.**

====**Jeju**==== 

**Loss of marine biodiversity leads to extinction**
**Davidson,** founder of the Turtle House Foundation and award-winning Journalist, **2003**
(Fire in the Turtle House, p.47-51)
But surely the Athenians had it ….and just twelve on land.

===**2ac - Add-Ons**=== 

====**North Korea**==== 

**Joint naval exercises involving an aircraft carrier cause North Korea to retaliate with nuclear weapons**
**Yu, 2010 (**Quincy, Staff Writer for the Epoch Times, Tensions Rise as Largest US-South Korea Military exercise Kicks Off, Epoch Times, July 26, http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/content/view/39879/)

The drill is also the first to …. that its aggressive behavior must stop.”


**And – Even limited nuclear use by North Korea guarantees extinction.**
**Hayes and Hamel-Green, 2010 (**Peter, Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for security and Sustainable Development, Michael, Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education, and Human Development at Victoria University, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia”, Nautilus Institute Special Report 10-001, January 5, http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)

The international community is increasingly ….priority consideration from the international community. 

===**2ac - CPs**=== 

====**Consult Russia**==== 

**Nonbinding consultation solves best.**
**Daily Oklahoman, 01**
**WITH his arrival in Spain….ruffling some feathers along the way.**

**Russia will say no- will join US naval exercises to deter North Korea**
**Reuters, 10,news agency, 5/27/2010, “Russia plans big naval exercise off North Korea”,http://uk.reuters.com/article/idUKTRE64Q3KI20100527**

**Russia will hold large-scale….adequate by the international community."**


====**Consult Nato**==== 

**NATO will say no- wants US navy participation in annual Russia-NATO drills in the Sea of Japan**
**RIA Novosti, 08, national-level Russian News Agency, 7/23/08, “Russia to Host FRUKUS-2008 International Naval Exercises”, http://en.rian.ru/russia/20080723/114741533.html**

**Russian, U.S., U.K., and French ….destroyer from Russia's Northern Fleet.**

**NATO says no- trying to contain China**
**Chang, 08, Andrei, editor in chief of Kanwa Defense Review Monthly, 8/08/2008, “NATO Keeps Eye on China”, http://www.upi.com/Business_News/Security-Industry/2008/02/08/Analysis-NATO-keeps-eye-on-China/UPI-29441202506036/**

**NATO is closely watching China's ….n articles published by the Chinese media.**

====**Consult South Korea**==== 

**South Korea will say no- wants US naval commitment**
**Harden, 09, Blaine, writer for The Washington Post Foreign Service, 6/16/2009, “S. Korea Seeks Assurances From U.S. of Nuclear Shield”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/06/15/AR2009061500944.html**

**As state media in North Korea continued to ….South Korea on imports of U.S. beef.**

**South Korea will say no- more naval exercises coming up**
**Garamone, 8/19, Jim, writer for American Forces Press Services, 8/19/2010, “US, South Korea Announce Yellow Sea Exercise”, http://www.navy.mil/search/display.asp?story_id=55421**

**The United States and South Korea ….stability on the Korean peninsula."**

**South Korea will say no- naval exercises will continue for months**
**Whitlock, 7/19, Craig, reporter for The Washington Post, 7/19/2010, “U.S., South Korea prepare for naval exercises”, http://voices.washingtonpost.com/checkpoint-washington/2010/07/us_south_korea_prepare_for_nav.html**

**After weeks of feints and indecision, the USS George Washington….Tuesday with South Korean Defense Minister Kim Tae-Young.**

====**Consult China - Minor Mod DA**==== 

**Giving China influence on US policy would lead to repeal of new sanctions on North Korea- they hate them**
**Ryall and Hutchinson, 7/21, Julian and Peter, reporters for The Telegraph, 7/21/2010, “US sanctions against North Korea provoke Chinese anger”, http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/worldnews/asia/northkorea/7902684/US-sanctions-against-North-Korea-provoke-Chinese-anger.html**

**The United States announced new sanctions….signed at the end of their three-year conflict.**


**New sanctions on North Korea key to prevent North Korean prolif**
**Lam and Bruce, 8/31, Sen and Scott, director of US operations at the Nautilus Institute, done by interview on Radio Australia, 8/31/2010, “New US sanctions on North Korea”, http://www.radioaustralia.net.au/asiapac/stories/201008/s2998852.htm**

**US president Barack Obama has ordered new financial …. across the border, severely destabilising China.**


**North Korean aggression and nuclearization will cause intentional, miscalculated, or accidental nuclear conflict – even a limited nuclear war triggers horrific impacts**
**Hayes & Hamel-Green, 10 – *Executive Director of the Nautilus Institute for Security and Sustainable Development, AND Executive Dean of the Faculty of Arts, Education and Human Development act Victoria University (1/5/10, Executive Dean at Victoria, “The Path Not Taken, the Way Still Open: Denuclearizing the Korean Peninsula and Northeast Asia,” http://www.nautilus.org/fora/security/10001HayesHamalGreen.pdf)**

**The international community is increasingly …. the international community.**

===**2ac - DAs**=== 

====**South Korea Prolif**==== 

**South Korea won’t go nuclear- public opposition.**
**Yi ‘9 (Kiho, Dir. Nautilus Institute of Seoul and Prof. – Hanshin U., The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, “The North Korean nuclear test: The South Korean reaction,” 6-5, http://www.thebulletin.org/web-edition/features/the-north-korean-nuclear-test-the-south-korean-reaction)**
**But back to the domestic response in South Korea. ….. to a practical process of denuclearization and disarmament on the Korean Peninsula.**


**Plan won’t lead to rearm- we would still have troops near the border to serve as a deterrent against land invasion**
**Adams ‘5 (Karen Ruth, Associate Prof. IR – U. Montana, and PhD Pol Sci. – UC Berkeley, “New Great Powers: Who Will They Be, and How Will They Rise?”, http://www.cas.umt.edu/polsci/faculty/adams/greatpower.pdf, p. 11)**
**Extended deterrence can be ….. effective as deployments of 500,000.42**


**South Korea views ground troops as key to deterrence because of the direct defense they provide against a DPRK invasion- withdrawal of naval forces is irrelevant to credibility**
**Payne et al ’10 (Keith, Pres. – National Institute for Public Policy, Prof. and Dept. Head of Graduate Defense and Strategic Studies – Mo. St. U., Chair – Policy Panel of theh US Strategic Command’s Senior Advisory Group, Thomas Scheber, VP – National Institute for Public Policy and former Dir. Strike Policy and Integration – Office of the Sec. Def., and Kurt Guthe, Dir. Strategic Studies – NIPP and former Deputy assistant Sec. Def. for Forces Policy, “U.S. Extended Deterrence and Assurance for Allies in Northeast Asia”,http://www.nipp.org/National%20Institute%20Press/Current%20Publications/PDF/US%20Extend-Deter-for%20print.pdf, p. 11-13)**

**The forward presence of U.S. ….. the U.S. commitment to the defense of the ROK**

**Not enough plutonium, economic disincentives – at worst, long-timeframe**
**Hughes 7 - Senior Research Fellow and Deputy Director at the CSGR and teaches the course on the International Relations of Pacific Asia in PAIS (January 2007, Christopher, “North Korea’s Nuclear Weapons: Implications for the Nuclear Ambitions of Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan”, Asia Policy #3, http://www.nautilus.org/publications/essays/napsnet/policy-forums-online/security/copy_of_07021Hughes.pdf) MGM**
**Finally, despite having made impressive …. were to seek nuclear weapons.**

===**2ac Security K**=== 

**Security 2ac**

**3. Debate should only include discussions that are policy relevant- their K marginalizes itself out of politics and is useless**
**Joseph Nye, 09, professor at Harvard University and former dean of the Harvard Kennedy School. , BA suma cum laude Princeton, PhD Harvard, Former Chair National Intelligence Council, Former Asst. Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs, you know who he is, http:, //www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2009/04/12/AR2009041202260_pf.html 4-13-09//**
**//President Obama has appointed … to be headed in the opposite direction.//**

**//4. Changing reps hinders understanding of policy by overlooking questions of agency and structures//**
**//Tuathail, 96 (Gearoid, Department of Georgraphy at Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Political Geography, 15(6-7), p. 664, science direct)//**

**//While theoretical debates …. to the patterned mess that is human history.//**

**//7. K FW Bad: no prior questions to problem oriented IR- empirical validity sufficient justification for action. Emphasis on the metaphysical prevents guiding the world.//**
**//David Owen, 02 Reader of Political Theory at the Univ. of Southampton, Millennium Vol 31 No 3 2002 p. 655-7//**

**//Commenting on the ‘philosophical …. potentially vicious circle arises.//**

**//CASE TURNS THE CRITIQUE - VIOLENT CONFLICT BLOCKS ANY TRANSITION TO THEIR ALTERNATIVE – ONLY THE PLAN/PERMUTATION CAN SOLVE//**
**//LINKLATER, 1989 (BEYOND REALISM AND MARXISM, ANDREW, SENIOR LECTURER IN POLITICS @ MONASH UNIVERSITY P. 32)//**

**//These theoretical disagreements …..extension of human community.//**

**//THEIR CRITICISM IS A RETREAT FROM POLITICAL CHANGE – DISCONNECTING CRITIQUE FROM POLICY SOLUTIONS CREATES THE LEFT AS MERE SPECTATORS TALKING PHILOSOPHY WHILE SUFFERING CONTINUES. CHALLENGING INSTITUTIONS IS THE ONLY WAY TO CREATE A BETTER WORLD//**
**//MCCLEAN, 2001 (DAVID, NEW SCHOOL UNIVERSITY, "THE CULTURAL LEFT AND THE LIMITS OF SOCIAL HOPE," CONFERENCE OF THE SOCIETY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF AMERICAN PHILOSOPHY, HTTP://WWW.AMERICAN-PHILOSOPHY.ORG/ARCHIVES/2001%20CONFERENCE/DISCUSSION%20PAPERS/DAVID_MCCLEAN.HTM)**

**YET FOR SOME REASON, AT …. DISRESPECT FOR THE SO-CALLED "MANAGERIAL CLASS."**

**MERE DECLARATION OF AN ALTERNATIVE DOES NOTHING - THEY HAVE NO MECHANISM TO ENACT THEIR WORLDVIEW**
**MURRAY, 1997 [ALASTAIR, LECTURER @ UNIVERSITY OF WALES SWANSEA, DEPARTMENT OF POLITICAL SCIENCE, PHD IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS FROM UNIVERSITY OF BRISTOL, RECONSTRUCTING REALISM: BETWEEN POWER POLITICS AND COSMOPOLITAN ETHICS]**

**Realists, however, would …. of hermcneutic circularity.**

**THE PERMUTATION SOLVES AND THEIR ALTERNATIVE FAILS - "REJECTION" OR "FORGETTING" OF CURRENT IR FRAMEWORKS ONLY SHIELDS THE STATUS QUO FROM CRITICISM**
**DARBY, 1997 (PHILLIP, READER IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS @ U OF MELBOURNE AND CO-DIRECTOR**
**OF THE INSTITUTE OF POSTCOLONIAL STUDIES, AUSTRALIA, AT THE EDGE OF INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS: POSTCOLONIALISM, GENDER AND DEPENDENCY. P. 242-3)**

**THERE IS ONE FINAL THOUGHT ….at the eduge from view.**

**REJECTION ONLY INSULATES SECURITY FROM EFFECTIVE CRITICISM – THE PERMUTATION SOLVES BEST**
**WAEVER, 1995 (OLE, SENIOR RESEARCHER, CENTER FOR PEACE & CONFLICT RESEARCH , ON SECURITY, ED. RONNIE D. LIPSCHUTZ, PG. 56-7)**

**An agenda of minimizing …. A POSITIVE VALUE TO BE MAXIMIZED.**


**SECURITY DISCOURSE IS INEVITABLE – THEIR ALTERNATIVE ONLY BLOCKS EFFECTIVE CHANGE**
**JONES, 1999 (RICHARD WYN, SENIOR LECTURER IN INTERNATIONAL POLITICS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF WALES, SECURITY, STRATEGY AND CRITICAL THEORY, ONLINE)**

**THERE ARE A NUMBER OF POSSIBLE ….PARTICULAR ISSUE) must be disputed.**