Plan:

The United States Congress should substantially increase acquisition of commercially hosted protected military communications satellite payloads in Molniya orbit.


__Advantage One is The Arctic__

Hosting military communications payloads in Molniya orbit is the only way to provide satellite connectivity to the Arctic – key to military readiness and commercial development
**__Smith, et al ‘11__** (Patrick L. Smith, former engineer, Aerospace Corporation, coauthored two AIAA papers on the effects of climate change on national security space programs, Ph.D. engineering, UCLA; Leslie A. Wickman, Senior Engineering Specialist, Space Architecture Department, Aerospace Corporation, Director of the Center for Research in Science at Azusa Pacific University, current projects include research on global climate change and national security issues, and assessment of current and future space mission technologies and their applications, B.A., political science, Willamette University, M.S., aeronautical and astronautical engineering, Ph.D., human factors and biomechanics, Stanford University; and Inki A. Min, Principal Engineering Specialist, Architecture and Design Subdivision, Aerospace Corporation, leads and performs system-level analyses of various Air Force, NASA, and NRO projects, Ph.D., aeronautics, Caltech; “Broadband Satellite Communications for Future U.S. Military and Coast Guard Operations in an Ice-Free Arctic,” Crosslink, Summer 2011, http://www.aero.org/publications/crosslink/summer2011/02.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The Aerospace Corporation is exploring possibilities for satellite broadband services in the Arctic, as that region is rapidly changing because of ice melt. During the past 23 years, 41 percent of the perennial Arctic ice has melted. Between 2004 and 2005 alone, 14 percent was lost. The volume of ice at the peak of the 2009 annual freeze was the lowest on record, (until March 2011) and of that, only 30 percent was thick, slow-melting multiyear ice. The Northwest Passage briefly opened in 2007, and could soon become a busy navigation route, cutting about 7000 kilometers from the shipping routes between Asia and Europe. At the same time, a U.S. Geological Survey report suggests that the Arctic seabed may hold as much as 25 percent of the world's undiscovered oil and natural gas reserves. Sovereign rights to energy resources in the Arctic seabed remain largely undetermined under international law. The U.N. Convention of the Law of the Sea provides a general legal framework to govern the use of the world's oceans and resources, and the major players in the region are scrambling for evidence to bolster their claims under the treaty (which has not yet been ratified by the United States). </span>**__The U.S.__** __Navy, Coast Guard, and other **military** services **have begun planning for increased operations in the Arctic**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, which is predicted to become essentially ice-free in summers as early as 2025. To assist the military's efforts, The Aerospace Corporation began a study in 2007 to determine the impacts of climate change on future national security space requirements, including manufacturing and launch operations—</span>**__with a particular__** __focus on the **need for broadband satellite communications in the Arctic to support increased** U.S. fleet and Coast Guard **operations**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Satellite Coverage of the Arctic Region </span>__The Arctic is very different from lower latitudes in regard to space system constraints and capabilities__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Weather and imaging satellites have excellent coverage because their inclined sun-synchronous orbits put them in view on every pass. On the other hand, passive imagery for ice monitoring and other types of surveillance is hampered by persistent cloud cover and seasonal darkness. GPS is available, but the lower elevation angles to the satellites and increased ionospheric effects somewhat reduce positioning accuracy. </span>**__Communications in the Arctic region are quite limited__**__. Dedicated **U.S. military communication satellites typically fly in equatorial geostationary orbits** (GEO), **which are below the 10-degree elevation constraint** on most terminals within the Arctic region **and** therefore **not accessible**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Options for 24/7 Arctic coverage include three satellites in 90 degree inclined geosynchronous orbits; four satellites in medium altitude elliptical (or "magic") orbits; three satellites in "tundra" elliptical 63.4 degrees inclined geosynchronous orbits; or two satellites in highly elliptical molniya orbits. </span>**__The most efficient constellation for dedicated Arctic communications is a phased two-satellite molniya constellation__**__. However, molniya satellites have different payload and antenna designs, ground-station connectivity, and user terminals than GEO satellites__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Terminal antennas must continuously track satellites in molniya orbits and switch between them as they move in and out of view. Also, because it is too costly to maintain a spare satellite in each orbital plane, a satellite failure in a molniya constellation will result in a periodic gap in coverage, which would probably take many months to remedy through the launch of a replacement satellite, whereas in GEO, a spare satellite is easily shifted to take a failed satellite's place. Researchers from NASA, the National Snow and Ice Data Center, and others using satellite data detected a significant loss in Arctic sea ice in 2005. Satellites have made continual observations of Arctic sea ice extent since 1978, and the 2005 data showed the extent had dropped to 2.05 million square miles, the lowest levels yet recorded. </span>__There are **established U.S. military requirements for communications support** for submarines, aircraft, and other platforms and forces operating in the high northern latitudes (as in all other theaters), but these requirements **do not take into account increased military** and Coast Guard **operations in the region as a result of accelerated Arctic melting**. **At lower latitudes, there are several ways to surge military communications capacity, such as** repositioning geosynchronous satellites, **leasing commercial satellite transponders**, and linking to fiber networks. **None of these options is feasible in the Arctic region**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>**__The current Interim__** __Polar System (IPS) **and** follow-on **Enhanced Polar System** (EPS) **are strategic communications payloads hosted on other satellites**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The IPS program was established in 1995 after the original plan to place Milstar satellites in inclined geosynchronous orbits was scrapped (IPS packages are basically low-data-rate Milstar payloads). </span>__EPS is an upgrade **based on A**dvanced **E**xtremely **H**igh **F**requency **technology and** the eXtended Data Rate waveform and **will provide connectivity to Global Information Grid gateways**. EPS **terminals are being procured by each service** under separate contracts, and the mission control segment will be part of the AEHF mission control segment. Iridium Satellite LLC provides the only commercial satellite communications service available in the Arctic region__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The Iridium constellation provides 2.4-kilobyte-per-second channels for voice and data. U.S. government users comprise about 25 percent of the 100,000 or so subscribers under a long-term service contract signed in 2000. Military uses of Iridium continue to evolve. For example, the U.S. Air Force is reportedly deploying more than 280 meteorological data terminals that relay data to a processing center via Iridium. The U.S. government has its own Iridium gateway for secure access to the system. Russian communication satellites in molniya orbits provide communications to their military forces (molniya orbits were first used by the USSR). Reportedly, there are 16 operational molniya satellites carrying the Russian Orbita Television network as well as commercial, government, and military communications traffic. Future Options for Arctic Broadband </span>__More-capable alternatives__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> to the IPS and EPS hosted payloads </span>__have been studied by the Air Force__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. A 2004 study considered a dedicated molniya constellation crosslinked to the then-planned TSAT constellation. A 2008 study considered a constellation of small satellites. </span>__But **free-flyer alternatives cost more than hosted payloads, which have remained the preferred options for military strategic communications in the Arctic** up to now__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The Canadian Coast Guard ship Louis S. St. Laurent (left) and U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Healy (right) on the Arctic Ocean. The ships came together to learn the operations of one another during a scientific expedition to map the Arctic seafloor in 2008. The range of options for future military broadband satellite communications in the Arctic region include hosted payloads (as with IPS and EPS), a dedicated molniya constellation, a combined all-latitudes constellation (such as the inclined 24-hour synchronous orbits originally considered for Milstar), a shared or joint program with allies, and leased commercial transponders (if a commercial broadband system becomes available in the future). Steps toward acquiring a dedicated military broadband system will need to start with a formal set of requirements followed by preliminary design studies and cost estimates for a range of development options. The final set of requirements and development budget would have to be negotiated and approved by all parties, including Congress. Aerospace has studied orbital coverage options and preliminary satellite concepts for the region. A typical example is a commercial-class molniya system providing up to 2 gigabytes per second of bandwidth capacity, which is estimated to cost approximately $1 billion plus the costs of user terminals and ground operations. Higher levels of protection and survivability would cost more. Smaller satellites would cost less but provide significantly less bandwidth because of the less-efficient payload-mass fraction. Given the uncertain pace of future Arctic melting, it is premature to recommend a dedicated program for military broadband service in the Arctic region. An all-latitude system (as originally planned for Milstar) may turn out to be the best long-term solution. An attractive option in the near term might be a joint program with U.S. allies or a commercial operator. Possibilities include: An assessment of polar broadband communications options. Iridium Next Iridium reportedly has partners and financing for the follow-on Iridium Next system (current Iridium satellites are already well beyond their design lifetimes). Iridium Next plans to offer Internet Protocol broadband channels with rates of up to 10 megabytes per second, which would provide a modest level of broadband communications as early as 2016 if development goes as planned; however, the available bandwidth would not support the most capable unmanned aerial vehicles, and there may be other limitations on U.S. military use as well, given the foreign ownership of Iridium Next. Polar Communications and Weather The Polar Communications and Weather (PCW) system being developed by the Canadian Space Agency and Environment Canada consists of two multimission spacecraft in molniya orbits. One of the proposed payloads is a Ka-band communications package with a capacity similar to Iridium Next. The PCW system may offer a partnership opportunity that might provide some level of broadband service to U.S. military users. The U.S. currently has Radarsat-2 data-sharing agreements, for example, which could serve as a model. Canadian developers have reportedly had discussions with Finland, Norway, Russia, and the United States. One concern, however, is that the multimission PCW initiative is primarily a remote sensing program, and if cost or weight-growth issues arise, the secondary communications package might be downsized or dropped altogether. As with Iridium, foreign partners might also restrict the U.S. military's use of the system's communications package. Assessment criteria for polar broadband communications options. Russian Programs Russia already provides various communications services in the Arctic region with its molniya systems. In 2010, Russia announced plans to develop a molniya satellite cluster called "Arktika" for weather and ice monitoring, broadcast communications, and data relay from Arctic buoys and automated weather stations. The Arktika-M spacecraft is designed to measure polar winds, cloud cover, precipitation, and ice parameters. The Arktika-R spacecraft will have synthetic-aperture radar, and the Arktika-MS spacecraft will provide telephone communications, relay television, and FM radio broadcasts to aircraft and ships. Russia has also announced plans for a molniya version of its Express series of GEO communications satellites based on the 8-12 kilowatt Express-4000 bus. The Express-RV is designed to provide Internet access and broadcast service. Some European nations, including NATO members, have reportedly expressed interest in partnering with Russia in the development of these systems, which could potentially meet certain U.S. military and Coast Guard needs as well, such as communications for search and rescue and disaster response. Commercial Broadband </span>**__Providing broadband and other communication services for oil exploration__**__, air travel, shipping, tourism, **and other activities may offer future business opportunities; however,** **the hurdle for closing the business case for a commercial Arctic molniya system will be higher than for a typical GEO system**. **Two satellites are needed for continuous coverage, and the satellites require extra radiation hardening**. Demand and spot lease revenue will be highly seasonal. **Private investors will want higher expected returns to compensate for risks of uncertain demand growth, unresolved treaty issues, and non-GEO satellite** development and **operations**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The European Space Agency is exploring potential future demand for communication services in the Arctic to identify possible development opportunities for the European industry. Potential markets include search and rescue, vessel traffic systems, maritime highways, in situ sensor data collection and dissemination, and surveillance and military activities. </span>__The broadband market in the Arctic will eventually be substantial, but at this point, it is impossible to predict how fast demand will grow. Thus, **it is unlikely a commercial business case can close in the near term without the D**epartment **o**f **D**efense **as a partner in development** or as a long-term anchor tenant__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The potential growth of bandwidth requirements in the Arctic region over the next 15 years. Summary </span>**__National security space planners should start anticipating new military support requirements arising from increased__** __military and Coast Guard **operations in the Arctic**. U.S. **military satellite communications are limited at high latitudes, and there is no ability to surge capabilities by** rephasing satellite orbits or **leasing commercial transponders**. The **lack of broadband communication in the Arctic will constrain** the use of unmanned aerial vehicles and other **military operations when nations in the region are jockeying for** influence and **control**. Developing a dedicated military broadband molniya system cannot be justified in the near term, so **the D**epartment **o**f **D**efense **should work with potential international and commercial partners to explore opportunities for jointly developing a broadband system**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Assured access to foreign and commercial synthetic-aperture radar imagery for ice surveillance should also be a priority.</span>


We’ll isolate multiple scenarios:

First is __Arctic Conflict__:

Lack of satellite bandwidth is crippling U.S. readiness in the Arctic – it’s a prerequisite to expanding operations
**__DoD ‘11__** (Department of Defense, “Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage,” OUSD (Policy), May 2011, http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">The capabilities likely to be most affected by the extreme Arctic environment include: navigation equipment; sensor employment; weapons employment capability; personnel safety; communications; logistics and resupply; equipment and facilities maintenance; infrastructure; and command and control. Three </span>**__capability gaps__** __in particular **have the potential to hamper Arctic operations across all time frames**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> covered in this assessment. First, </span>**__communications are extremely limited__** __in latitudes above 70°N **due to magnetic and solar phenomena that degrade** High-Frequency (HF) **radio signals, limited surface-based relays** outside of Alaska, **and geostationary satellite geometry**. **High-data-rate satellite communications are sparse**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, but commercial low-rate service is available. </span>__Although adequate for single ships, **the communications architecture is insufficient to support normal operational practices of a surface action group or any large-scale Joint Force operations**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Second, Global Positioning System (GPS) performance in the Arctic is degraded due to poor satellite geometry, ionospheric effects, and multipath interference. Although its performance is adequate for surface navigation, the degradations could affect missions that require precision navigation, such as weapons targeting or search and rescue. Furthermore, navigation charts in Arctic areas are not up to modern standards. Reported depths can be particularly unreliable in areas subject to shoaling and ice scour, increasing the risk for all littoral operations. 15 Additionally, although accurate ice coverage charts are available for surface navigation, reliable real-time ice characterization (e.g., depth or thickness) is not. These issues, taken together, could affect the safety of all maritime operations. Third, awareness across all domains in the Arctic is extremely limited due to distances, limited presence, and the harsh environment.</span> __**DoD requires the capability to monitor and assess human activity in the Arctic persistently in order to support evolving** defense, safety, and **security efforts adequately**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


That’s key to prevent Arctic conflicts, especially with Russia
**__Goldenberg ‘11__** (Suzanne Goldenberg, US environment correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “Prepare for Arctic struggle as climate changes, US navy warned,” 3-10-2011, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2011/mar/10/arctic-struggle-climate-change)
**__America urgently needs to build up its military readiness in the Arctic where melting summer sea ice is setting up a global struggle for resources__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, a study prepared for the US navy has warned. The report by the National Academy of Sciences warned that </span>**__climate change could upset the delicate security balance in the Arctic – even among close allies – and__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> that </span>**__America is unprepared for the challenges ahead__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. "</span>**__The US military__**<span class="Underline"> as a whole </span>**__has lost__**<span class="Underline"> most of </span>**__its competence in cold-weather operations for Arctic weather__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">," the report, National Security Implications of Climate Change for US Naval Forces, warned. "In the immediate term</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10.66px;">, the navy should begin Arctic training and </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">the marine corps should</span><span class="Underline" style="font-size: 10.66px;"> also </span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">establish a cold weather training programme." </span><span class="Underline">The report warned that America was currently unprepared to defend its interests in the Arctic</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Current submarine systems would be challenged to operate in the Arctic, the report warned. In addition, the coastguard has just three ice breakers, and these are old and obsolete. It went on to call on the navy to develop an Arctic observer and research service, with remote sensing equipment such as satellites and drones. "</span>**__Even the most moderate predicted trends in climate change will present new national security challenges for the US__** **__navy, marine corps__****__, and coastguard__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">," said Frank Bowman, a retired US navy admiral and co-chair of the committee that produced the report. "Naval forces need to monitor more closely and start preparing now for projected challenges climate change will present in the future," Bowman said. The report said that it expected large stretches of the Arctic to be ice-free in the summer by 2030, if current rates of ice loss continued. </span>**__Competition for oil and gas in the region was bound to increase__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, the report said. Last year, Scottish oil producer Cairn Energy confirmed it had found oil off the coast of Greenland and one of Nato's senior commanders warned </span>**__the race for resources could lead to conflict__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. "</span><span class="Underline">The geopolitical situation in the Arctic region has become complex and nuanced, despite the area being essentially ignored since the end of the Cold War</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">," the report warns. Between them, </span><span class="Underline">**the countries sharing the Arctic, which include the US**</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Canada, Denmark, Norway, </span><span class="Underline">**Russia**</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Iceland, Sweden and Finland, </span><span class="Underline">**have a number of unresolved disputes – over boundaries as well as resources**</span><span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, the report warned.</span>


Russia only respects shows of force – boosting the credibility of deterrence is key
**__Cohen, et al ‘8__** (Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Security; Lajos F. Szaszdi, Ph.D., is a Researcher in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation; Jim Dolbow is a defense analyst and a member of the Editorial Board at the U.S. Naval Institute, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic,” The Heritage Foundation, Backgrounder No. 2202, 10-30-2008, http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">Russian Ambitions. </span>**__Russia recognizes the__**<span class="Underline"> multifaceted </span>**__potential of the Arctic and__****__is__**<span class="Underline"> moving rapidly to assert its national interests</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Moscow has submitted a claim to the U.N. Convention on the Law of the Sea to an area of 460,000 square miles— the size of Germany, France, and Italy combined. </span><span class="Underline">The Kremlin is pursuing its interests by </span>**__projecting military power into the region__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> and by using diplomatic instruments such as the Law of the Sea Treaty. </span><span class="Underline">Russia made a show of planting its flag on the Arctic seabed in August 2007 and has resumed strategic bomber flights over the Arctic for the first time since the end of the Cold War. </span>**__While paying lip service to international law, Russia’s ambitious actions hearken back to 19th-century statecraft rather than__**<span class="Underline"> the 21st-century </span>**__lawbased policy and__**<span class="Underline"> appear to </span>**__indicate that the Kremlin believes__**<span class="Underline"> that </span>**__credible displays of power will settle conflicting territorial claims__**. **__By comparison, the West’s posture toward the Arctic has been irresolute and inadequate__**. **__This needs to change__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>


And, U.S. presence is key to the success of diplomatic alternatives
**__Borgerson ‘8__** (Scott G. Borgerson, International Affairs Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a former Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Coast Guard, “Arctic Meltdown: The Economic and Security Implications of Global Warming,” Foreign Affairs, March/April 2008, http://royaldutchshellplc.com/2008/02/28/foreignaffairsorg-arctic-meltdown-the-economic-and-security-implications-of-global-warming/)
__The Arctic Ocean is melting, and it is melting fast__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. This past summer, the area covered by sea ice shrank by more than one million square miles, reducing the Arctic icecap to only half the size it was 50 years ago. For the first time, the Northwest Passage — a fabled sea route to Asia that European explorers sought in vain for centuries — opened for shipping. </span>__Even if the international community manages to slow the pace of climate change immediately and dramatically, a certain amount of warming is irreversible. It is no longer a matter of if, but when, the Arctic Ocean will open to regular marine transportation and exploration of its lucrative natural-resource deposits__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Global warming has given birth to a new scramble for territory and resources among the five Arctic powers__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Russia was the first to stake its claim in this great Arctic gold rush, in 2001. Moscow submitted a claim to the United Nations for 460,000 square miles of resource-rich Arctic waters, an area roughly the size of the states of California, Indiana, and Texas combined. The UN rejected this ambitious annexation, but last August the Kremlin nevertheless dispatched a nuclear-powered icebreaker and two submarines to plant its flag on the North Pole’s sea floor. Days later, the Russians provocatively ordered strategic bomber flights over the Arctic Ocean for the first time since the Cold War. Not to be outdone, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced funding for new Arctic naval patrol vessels, a new deep-water port, and a cold-weather training center along the Northwest Passage. Denmark and Norway, which control Greenland and the Svalbard Islands, respectively, are also anxious to establish their claims. </span>__While the other Arctic powers are racing to carve up the region, the U__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">tates </span>__has remained largely on the sidelines__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The U.S. Senate has not ratified the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), the leading international treaty on maritime rights, even though President George W. Bush, environmental nongovernmental organizations, the U.S. Navy and U.S. Coast Guard service chiefs, and leading voices in the private sector support the convention. As a result, the United States cannot formally assert any rights to the untold resources off Alaska’s northern coast beyond its exclusive economic zone — such zones extend for only 200 nautical miles from each Arctic state’s shore — nor can it join the UN commission that adjudicates such claims. Worse, </span>__Washington has forfeited its ability to assert sovereignty in the Arctic__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> by allowing its icebreaker fleet to atrophy. The United States today funds a navy as large as the next 17 in the world combined, yet it has just one seaworthy oceangoing icebreaker — a vessel that was built more than a decade ago and that is not optimally configured for Arctic missions. Russia, by comparison, has a fleet of 18 icebreakers. And even China operates one icebreaker, despite its lack of Arctic waters. </span>__Through its own neglect, the world’s sole superpower — a country that borders the Bering Strait and possesses over 1,000 miles of Arctic coastline — has been left out in the cold__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Washington cannot afford to stand idly by. The Arctic region is not currently governed by any comprehensive multilateral norms and regulations because it was never expected to become a navigable waterway or a site for large-scale commercial development. Decisions made by Arctic powers in the coming years will therefore profoundly shape the future of the region for decades. Without U.S. leadership to help develop diplomatic solutions to competing claims and potential conflicts, the region could erupt in an armed mad dash for its resources__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


Arctic conflict is more probable than any other scenario – and accesses an invisible threshold – routes are opening now
**__Joyner ‘9__** (James Joyner, managing editor of the Atlantic Council, “Arctic Thaw Brings NATO Security Risks,” http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/arctic-thaw-brings-nato-security-risks)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">NATO leaders said yesterday that an Arctic thaw will create new security concerns for the Alliance — and they don't mean "security" in a postmodern sense in which any concern is labeled one of security to help argue for increased funding. David Stringer reports for AP: </span>**__An Arctic thaw will open up sea routes and competition for lucrative energy reserves__**<span class="Underline"> in a multinational scramble </span>**__sure to pose new security threats__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, NATO's chief said Thursday. NATO commanders and lawmakers meeting in Iceland's capital said </span>**__a military presence in the region will__**<span class="Underline"> eventually </span>**__be needed as standoffs between powerful nations unfold__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. "I would be the last one to expect military conflict — but there will be a military presence," NATO Secretary-General Jaap de Hoop Scheffer told delegates. "It should be a military presence that is not overdone, and there is a need for political cooperation and economic cooperation." The NATO chief said negotiations involving Russia, NATO and other nations are the key to preventing a future conflict. De Hoop Scheffer is expected to meet Russian Deputy Prime Minister Sergei Ivanov next week to discuss such issues. </span><span class="Underline">The opening up of Arctic sea routes once only navigable by icebreakers threatens to complicate delicate relations between countries with competing claims to Arctic territory — particularly as once inaccessible areas become ripe for exploration for oil and natural gas</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The United States, Russia and Canada are among the countries attempting to claim jurisdiction over Arctic territory alongside Nordic nations. Analysts say China is also likely to join a rush to capture oil and gas trapped under the region's ice. "Several Arctic rim countries are strengthening their capabilities, and military activity in the High North region has been steadily increasing," de Hoop Scheffer said. Strategists expect territorial disputes to become increasingly aggressive as the world's energy demands increase. "Climate change is not a fanciful idea, it is already a reality, a reality that brings with it certain new challenges, including for NATO," said de Hoop Scheffer, acknowledging that an upsurge of energy exploration would likely require a larger NATO presence in the Arctic. Some </span>**__scientists predict that Arctic waters could be ice-free__**<span class="Underline"> in summers </span>**__by 2013, decades earlier than previously thought__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. De Hoop Scheffer said trans-Arctic routes are likely to become an alternative to passage through the Suez or Panama canals for commercial shipping. "The end of the Cold War resulted in a marked reduction in military activity in the High North — Iceland would like it to stay that way," Iceland's outgoing Prime Minister Geir Haarde told the conference. Haarde tendered his resignation Monday amid the country's economic crisis and said the one-day conference was among his final duties before he steps down on Saturday. Lee Willett, head of the maritime studies program at the Royal United Services Institute, a London-based military think tank, said that </span>**__as routes open up, warships__**<span class="Underline"> from nations seeking to defend claims to possible energy resources are </span>**__will follow__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. "</span><span class="Underline">Having lots of warships, from lots of nations who have lots of competing claims on territory — that may lend itself to a rather tense situation</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">," Willett said. "</span>**__We may see that flash points come to pass there more readily than elsewhere in the world__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">." Russia and Canada have already traded verbal shots over each other's intentions in the Arctic. Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper said he'll firm up control of the disputed Northwest Passage, while Russian President Dmitry Medvedev seeks to lay claim to Arctic territory equivalent to the size of France. This is not an issue that has gotten much attention, especially in national security circles, where most of us focus on more traditional military concerns. It's something we'll be keeping a close eye on at the Atlantic Council.</span>


Escalates to nuclear conflict with Russia
**__Wallace & Staples ‘10__** (Michael Wallace, Professor Emeritus of the University of British Columbia; Steven Staples, President of the Rideau Institute; “Ridding the Arctic of Nuclear Weapons: a task long overdue,” Canadian Pugwash Group, Rideau Institute, March 2010, http://www.arcticsecurity.org/docs/arctic-nuclear-report-web.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">The fact is, </span>**__the Arctic is becoming a zone of increased military competition__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Russian President </span>**__Medvedev has announced the creation of a special military force to defend Arctic claims__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Last year </span><span class="Underline">Russian </span>**__General__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> Vladimir </span>**__Shamanov declared__**<span class="Underline"> that </span>**__Russian troops would step up training for Arctic combat__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, and that Russia’s submarine fleet would increase its “operational radius.”55 Recently, two Russian attack submarines were spotted off the U.S. east coast for the first time in 15 years.56 In January 2009, on the eve of Obama’s inauguration, President Bush issued a National Security Presidential Directive on Arctic Regional Policy. It affirmed as a priority the preservation of U.S. military vessel and aircraft mobility and transit throughout the Arctic, including the Northwest Passage, and foresaw greater capabilities to protect U.S. borders in the Arctic.57 The Bush administration’s disastrous eight years in office, particularly its decision to withdraw from the ABM treaty and deploy missile defence interceptors and a radar station in Eastern Europe, have greatly contributed to the instability we are seeing today, even though the Obama administration has scaled back the planned deployments. The Arctic has figured in this renewed interest in Cold War weapons systems, particularly the upgrading of the Thule Ballistic Missile Early Warning System radar in Northern Greenland for ballistic missile defence. The Canadian government, as well, has put forward new military capabilities to protect Canadian sovereignty claims in the Arctic, including proposed ice-capable ships, a northern military training base and a deep-water port. Earlier this year Denmark released an all-party defence position paper that suggests the country should create a dedicated Arctic military contingent that draws on army, navy and air force assets with shipbased helicopters able to drop troops anywhere.58 Danish fighter planes would be tasked to patrol Greenlandic airspace. Last year Norway chose to buy 48 Lockheed Martin F-35 fighter jets, partly because of their suitability for Arctic patrols. In March, that country held a major Arctic military practice involving 7,000 soldiers from 13 countries in which a fictional country called Northland seized offshore oil rigs.59 The manoeuvres prompted a protest from Russia – which objected again in June after Sweden held its largest northern military exercise since the end of the Second World War. About 12,000 troops, 50 aircraft and several warships were involved.60 Jayantha Dhanapala, President of Pugwash and former UN under-secretary for disarmament affairs, summarized the situation bluntly: “From those in the international peace and security sector, deep concerns are being expressed over the fact that </span><span class="Underline">two nuclear weapon states – </span>**__the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span>**__and__**<span class="Underline"> the </span>**__Russian Federation, which__**<span class="Underline"> together </span>**__own 95 per cent of the nuclear weapons in the world – converge on__**<span class="Underline"> the Arctic and have </span>**__competing claims__**. **__These__**<span class="Underline"> claims</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, together with those of other allied NATO countries – Canada, Denmark, Iceland, and Norway – </span>**__could__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, if unresolved, </span>**__lead to conflict escalating into the__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> threat or </span>**__use of nuclear weapons__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.”61 Many will no doubt argue that this is excessively alarmist, but </span>**__no circumstance in which nuclear powers find themselves in military confrontation can be taken lightly__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The current geo-political threat level is nebulous and low – for now, according to Rob Huebert of the University of Calgary, “</span><span class="Underline">[the] issue is the uncertainty as Arctic states and non-Arctic states begin to recognize the geo-political/economic significance of the Arctic because of climate change</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.” 62 </span>


That’s the only existential nuclear impact
**__Bostrom ‘2__** (Nick Bostrom, philosophy professor at Oxford, “Existential Risks Analyzing Human Extinction Scenarios and Related Hazards,” Journal of Evolution and Technology, 9(1), 2002, http://www.nickbostrom.com/existential/risks.html)
<span class="Underline">A much greater existential risk emerged </span>**__with the build-up of nuclear arsenals in the US and the USSR__**<span class="Underline">. </span>**__An all-out nuclear war was a possibility with both a substantial probability and with consequences__**<span class="Underline"> that might have been </span>**__persistent enough to qualify as global and terminal__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. There was a real worry among those best acquainted with the information available at the time that </span>**__a nuclear Armageddon would__**<span class="Underline"> occur and that it might</span> **__annihilate our species__**<span class="Underline"> or permanently destroy human civilization</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.[4] </span>**__Russia and the US retain large nuclear arsenals that could be used in a future confrontation, either accidentally or deliberately__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. There is also a risk that other states may one day build up large nuclear arsenals. Note </span>**__however__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> that </span>**__a smaller nuclear exchange, between India and Pakistan for instance, is not an existential risk, since it would not destroy__**<span class="Underline"> or thwart </span>**__humankind’s potential permanently__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Such a war might however be a local terminal risk for the cities most likely to be targeted. Unfortunately, we shall see that nuclear Armageddon and comet or asteroid strikes are mere preludes to the existential risks that we will encounter in the 21st century.</span>


And, Russia will use bioweapons
**__Ruddy ‘99__** (Christopher Ruddy, “Russia and China Prepare for War,” 3-15-1999, http://archive.newsmax.com/articles/?a=1999/3/14/193145)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">Nyquist states that </span>**__in a war with the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates, </span>**__Russia will heavily utilize their extensive biological__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> and chemical </span>**__weapons -- particularly during the initial strikes__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. These are comparatively cheap weapons of mass destruction, with a low "cost per kill.” </span>**__Because America has a large population dispersed over a wide area, biological__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> and chemical </span>**__weapons are an effective means of mass extermination__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Lunev concurs with much of what Nyquist says. In his book, Through the Eyes of the Enemy, he details how Russian GRU agents have been sent to the US to scout out the best way to employ such weapons. </span>**__Russia has__****__the ability to produce__****__enormous quantities of deadly biological__**<span class="Underline"> and chemical </span>**__weapons quickly__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The International Herald Tribune of December 29, 1998, describes one such factory: "Six stories high and two football fields long, the central factory [Stepnogorsk] is filled with 10 giant fermentation vats, each meant to brew 5,000 gallons of anthrax microbes -- enough to kill every man, woman and child in America many times over. "Stepnogorsk’s former director, who defected to the United States in 1992, says the plant was to produce up to 300 tons of final ‘product’ in a 200-day period if the order came to mobilize for war.” The Stepnogorsk human death factory has been closed. But </span><span class="Underline">there is no way to tell how many other factories continue to operate or how many tons of deadly poisons the Russians have stockpiled</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. For example, in February 1997, the Washington Times reported that a secret military intelligence document reported that Russia had developed a nerve gas called A-232. The report stated that Russia has the ability to mass produce the agent "within weeks” In March of this year, the New York Times carried an article by Ken Alibek, a chief deputy in Biopreparat, the military’s biological weapons division. Alibek says </span>**__Russia continues to develop new biological weapons, from anthrax to various plague strains__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Alibek criticized US aid to Russia which does not allow full-scale inspection of the sites where these weapons are being developed. Alibek’s </span>**__claims were substantiated__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> in September of 1998 </span>**__when the D__**<span class="Underline">efense </span>**__I__**<span class="Underline">ntelligence </span>**__A__**<span class="Underline">gency </span>**__reported to Congress that__**<span class="Underline"> "</span>**__key components__**<span class="Underline"> of the former Soviet biological warfare program </span>**__remain__**<span class="Underline"> largely </span>**__intact and__**<span class="Underline"> may </span>**__support__**<span class="Underline"> a possible future </span>**__mobilization capability__**<span class="Underline"> for the production of biological agents and delivery systems</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.”</span>


Extinction
**__Ochs ‘2__** (Richard Ochs, "BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS MUST BE ABOLISHED IMMEDIATELY", 6-9-2002, [[http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">The failure of the FBI to prosecute the perpetrator of the anthrax letters even though the FBI is believed to know who it is has led several experts to conclude that the perpetrator is untouchable because he has knowledge damaging to the government. That knowledge is believed to be the US violation of the 1972 Convention on Biological Weapons, which states that it is illegal to "develop, produce, stockpile or otherwise acquire" such weapons. The US is using state-of-the-art genetic splicing to make designer bioweapons. An article by Laura Rozen in Salon (2/8/02) revealed that the "Defense Intelligence Agency hired Battelle to create a genetically enhanced version of anthrax" even though no vaccine was proven to be effective beforehand. A former Clinton administration official, Elisa D. Harris, "was shocked to read in the New York Times" (9/4/01) about bioweapons research "that she herself had not known about, although she had served for eight years in the White House as the point person for weapons of mass destruction nonproliferation issues."What other secret, illegal and genetically modified bioweapons are in the works? If we are told "none," why should we believe anything they tell us? </span>**__Of all the weapons of mass destruction__**<span class="Underline">, the genetically engineered</span>**__biological weapons__**<span class="Underline">, many without a known cure or vaccine, </span>**__are an extreme danger to the continued survival of life on earth__****__. Any perceived military value or deterrence pales in comparison to the great risk these weapons pose just sitting in vials in laboratories. While a "nuclear winter," resulting from a massive exchange of nuclear weapons, could also kill off most of life on earth and severely compromise the health of future generations, they are easier to control. Biological weapons,__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> on the other hand, </span>**__can get out of control very easily__****__, as the recent anthrax attacks has demonstrated__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>**__There is no way to guarantee the security of these doomsday weapons because very tiny amounts can be stolen or accidentally released and then grow or be grown to horrendous proportions__**<span class="Underline">. The Black Death of the Middle Ages would be small in comparison to the potential damage bioweapons could cause. </span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">Abolition of chemical weapons is less of a priority because, while they can also kill millions of people outright, their persistence in the environment would be less than nuclear or biological agents or more localized. Hence, chemical weapons would have a lesser effect on future generations of innocent people and the natural environment. Like the Holocaust, once a localized chemical extermination is over, it is over. With nuclear and biological weapons, the killing will probably never end. Radioactive elements last tens of thousands of years and will keep causing cancers virtually forever. Potentially worse than that, </span>**__bio-engineered agents__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">by the hundreds with no known cure</span>**__could wreck even greater calamity on the human race than could persistent radiation__**<span class="Underline">.</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> AIDS and ebola viruses are just a small example of recently emerging plagues with no known cure or vaccine. Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? </span>**__HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Ironically, the Bush administration has just changed the U.S. nuclear doctrine to allow nuclear retaliation against threats upon allies by conventional weapons. The past doctrine allowed such use only as a last resort when our nation’s survival was at stake. Will the new policy also allow easier use of US bioweapons? How slippery is this slope? Against this tendency can be posed a rational alternative policy. </span><span class="Underline">To preclude possibilities of human extinction, "patriotism" needs to be redefined to make humanity’s survival primary and absolute. Even if we lose our cherished freedom, our sovereignty, our government or our Constitution, where there is life, there is hope. What good is anything else if humanity is extinguished?</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">This concept should be promoted to the center of national debate. For example, for sake of argument, suppose the ancient Israelites developed defensive bioweapons of mass destruction when they were enslaved by Egypt. Then suppose these weapons were released by design or accident and wiped everybody out? </span><span class="Underline">As bad as slavery is, extinction is worse</span><span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Our generation, our century, our epoch needs to take the long view. We truly hold in our hands the precious gift of all future life. Empires may come and go, but who are the honored custodians of life on earth? Temporal politicians? Corporate competitors? Strategic brinksmen? Military gamers? Inflated egos dripping with testosterone? How can any sane person believe that national sovereignty is more important than survival of the species? Now that extinction is possible, our slogan should be "Where there is life, there is hope." No government, no economic system, no national pride, no religion, no political system can be placed above human survival. The egos of leaders must not blind us. </span>


Second scenario is __Arctic E&P__:

Lack of satellite bandwidth is constraining arctic gas exploration and production
**__NSR ‘11__** (Northern Sky Research, Industry Briefing, “The Digital Oilfield: Rising Bandwidth Demand, Consolidation and the HTS Puzzle,” 5-24-2011, [[http://www.nsr.com/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=444&catid=102&Itemid=175]])
**__Recent discoveries in remote areas such as the Arctic are pushing the Oil & Gas__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (O&G) </span>**__sector further away from terrestrial service, which drives satellite connectivity in the digital oilfield__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. NSR heard three distinct messages at the Global VSAT Forum’s (GVF) 4th Annual Oil and Gas Communications Europe 2011 conference in Aberdeen on 17 – 18th May. The conference offered an opportunity to hear firsthand accounts of three clear trends affecting this market: </span>__O&G **industry bandwidth needs are ever increasing**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, consolidation on the satellite service side has opened previously closed doors to smaller providers, and there are concerns over </span>__High Throughput **Satellite** (HTS)__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> Ka-Band offerings. The O&G market certainly remains skeptical of the value that upcoming HTS Ka-band services can bring to the exploration, production and distribution segments. Today, these </span>__new and emerging HTS **services**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> lack clear messages on stabilized or enterprise-grade platforms, </span>**__do not currently have key O&G areas covered__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, and the market has overarching concerns over the interoperability of the regional jigsaw puzzle of HTS Ka-band capacity. As Inmarsat is still determining the content of its Global XPress offering, </span>**__O&G providers__** __and end-users **are in a ‘wait-and-see’ mode before they make large purchasing decisions to assess the overall benefits and reliability of HTS capacity to their operations**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (and to see if Ku-band pricing will lower as a result.) NSR believes the O&G industry will seek Ku/Ka-band solutions to mitigate concerns over patchy HTS Ka-band services; meanwhile, HTS capacity providers will need to develop roaming capabilities with each other to be successful in this marketplace. While the HTS value-proposition seems uncertain, </span>__NSR highlighted the ever increasing bandwidth needs of the offshore services industry it has studied in its recently released Oil and Gas via Satellite study, and participants and speakers alike overwhelmingly confirmed this trend__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. One contractor even stated that bandwidth needs that range in the half megabit per second range for a specific segment today could easily increase four-fold in the coming years. Amidst the wait for HTS services, and bandwidth demand increases, the industry is slowly feeling the effects of the largest merger to date on the satellite services side; that of CapRock, Schlumberger GCS and Core180 into Harris Corporation. “Will bigger be better for all?” was the question posed by many attendees. One smaller regional player offered the thought that this merger has a silver lining: “The merger has opened a previously closed door to smaller providers to offer the critical redundant link infrastructure vital to O&G operations.” Where O&G companies used to select a primary system from Schlumberger and a back-up from CapRock, now they must look to new, smaller providers to provide critical back-up infrastructure to support their operations. Although consolidation is still occurring, these complementary regional providers could be appealing as separate companies, rather than a large global service provider. Bottom Line The GVF’s Oil & Gas Europe conference gave a sense that there are a lot of unanswered questions about HTS, even if </span>__it is clear that bandwidth needs keep rising in the sector__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. As regional players face ever-increasing competition from larger service providers, supporting redundant links could be the door that opens new revenue streams as O&G end-users push further into the frontiers of connectivity.</span>


New satellite communications capability is key
**__Jarrold ‘8__** (Martin Jarrold, Chief of International Program Development, Global VSAT Forum, “Dynamics in the “Oil & Gas Patch”,” Sat Magazine, March 2008, http://www.satmagazine.com/cgi-bin/display_article.cgi?number=724995289)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">As </span>__a supplier of essential services to the oil & gas industry__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, the </span>**__satellite communications__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> sector are acutely aware of the fact that cost-effective and efficient means of communication </span>**__are essential to mission-critical operational success in the “oil & gas patch”__**__. Satellite-based communications__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, together with satellite-terrestrial hybrid solutions, and terrestrial platforms, </span>__play a vital role in oil & gas. **They provide essential connectivity and access to vital applications**, often **in remote geographic environments and challenging climatic conditions**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>**__The search for new reserves of__** __oil & **gas necessitates migrating to harder-to-reach offshore locations** (most recently **in the Arctic Ocean** latitudes__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">). Additionally, older production fields are the target of innovative drilling and pumping techniques designed to extract the last drop of oil or cubic meter of gas, </span>**__making the mission-criticality of__** __ICTs (Information and **Communication Technology**) **even more evident**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Thus, **satellite will be an important**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, but not exclusive, </span>**__part of__** __the bigger picture__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> at a new GVF event focused on </span>__the oil & **gas exploration and production** (E & P) environment__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Previously, GVF, in partnership with UK-EMP, has organized two successful and widely acclaimed “Oil & Gas Communications: Middle East and North Africa” conferences, held in Cairo in 2006 and 2007. Now that same partnership is directing its attention to an event that will examine in much greater detail the nature of the applications that the oil & gas industry must exploit. </span>__This is **necessary to keep these forms of energy flowing from the** subterranean and **subsea** depths of the planet__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


Arctic exploration and production is key to prevent methane release – multiple internal links:

First, __natural outgassing__ – the ocean is already too warm to sustain frozen methane hydrates – wide-scale melting is inevitable and underway
**__Nissen ‘11__** (John Nissen, Chairman, Arctic Methane Emergency Working Group, geoengineering expert; other contributors & members: Peter Wadhams, Professor of ocean physics at Cambridge University, Stephen Salter, Emeritus Professor of Engineering Design at Edinburgh University, Dr. Brian Orr, former Principal Scientific Officer, Department of the Environment, Peter Carter, Sam Carana, Anthony Cook, Gary Houser, Jon Hughes, and Graham Ennis; “Arctic Methane Alert,” December 2011, http://www.vmine.net/scienceinparliament/specials/12.pdf)
__Until now, governments have been told that climate change is a long-term problem. They have been trying to do their best for their citizens by pursuing strategies for emissions reductions over decades__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, to prevent global warming exceeding a ‘safe’ limit. </span>__But the situation has dramatically changed. We now face a problem requiring emergency action, to stop the point of ‘no return’ being reached. The loss of Arctic sea-ice in September is now considered to be that point, as it will set off a chain reaction of events that cannot be halted__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The very rapid rise in greenhouse gases, and the near collapse of the protective cooling of the Arctic sea ice, is unprecedented in the past 2.5 million years. </span>__The last time there was explosive growth of methane, of the amount we are liable to encounter as the sea ice retreats, was__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> in the PETM </span>__around 55 million years ago – the last major extinction event__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Warnings about the catastrophic impacts of a methane release from the Arctic have been circulating for many years. Former US Department Geologist John Atcheson wrote in 2004: “</span>__A temperature increase of merely a few degrees would cause these gases to volatilize and ‘burp’ into the atmosphere… Once triggered this cycle could result in runaway global warming, the likes of which even the most pessimistic doomsayers aren’t talking about…”__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> [1] NASA scientist Jay Zwally said in 2007 the rate of collapse indicated an ice-free summer by 2012. The Copenhagen Diagnosis (2009) states: “Summer-time melting of Arctic sea-ice has accelerated far beyond the expectations of climate models.” The PIOMAS </span>__findings confirm this acceleration and probability that collapse is now occurring at an exponential rather than linear rate, pointing to an Arctic ice-free during the summer being reached sooner (2013__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">-18) </span>__rather than later__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (2100) (p5). </span>__The inevitability of an ice-free Arctic releasing vast quantities of methane is widely recognised__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, as stated by Nobel Laureate, Steven Chu [2]. </span>__Failure to make ready to counteract the Arctic methane threat would amount to a failure of duty of care that governments have for their citizens__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> [3]: “The Parties should take precautionary measures to anticipate, prevent or minimise the causes of climate change and mitigate its adverse effects. Where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing such measures.” It is against this background we urge you to read this report and consider its contents. Dr. Igor Semiletov Dr. Igor Semiletov, crew leader of a recently returned Arctic methane research expedition, was interviewed on Oct 20 in Vladivostok, Russia, by an associate of a U.S.-based documentary team. Here are some excerpts, released by kind permission of 590 Films (www.590films.org/methane.html) Note: Dr semiletov was speaking as an individual and not reporting official findings. Scale of emissions “For sure there was a sense of urgency in our preparation. It was caused by the </span>__new data, which had been gathered during the past two years and not published yet__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. This data </span>__presents plenty of reason to have concern__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. In our article for Science magazine </span>__in 2010, we estimated the scale of methane emission from this region to be 8 million tons ...... But the more recent data shows that the emissions from the East Siberian Arctic Shelf (ESAS) are much bigger. There are actually huge plumes of bubbles emitting from the sea bottom. Using__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> the equipment available on this voyage – </span>__four geophysical methods, seismic profiling on different frequencies, hydro-acoustics on three frequencies, we measured these fountains of bubbles and the methane concentration in the air ....That was highly precise measuring__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. “</span>__We conducted 115 stationary checkpoints and discovered fields__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> of fantastic scale – I think </span>__of a scale not seen before in the ocean. Some fountains of methane were a kilometre and more in diameter. Emissions into the atmosphere were also 100 times higher than normal – what would be considered sustainable – levels. Such emissions would unavoidably cause impacts on climate change – the only question concerns the scale, kinetics, and speed of the emissions__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.” Unprecedented warming “</span>__The international climate community is now beginning to seriously examine this mechanism of rapid methane emissions as a possible cause of fast climate changes on the Earth__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__I agree with the opinion of most climate experts working in the Arctic. We see reduction of ice cover. It is obvious not only from satellites, but we also can see it directly while we are working there__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">… In 2007, we were on a fairly small ship Victor Buinitzki and reached 82 degrees latitude, and the surface temperature was plus 3°C (3°C above freezing). </span>__This is unprecedented warming, and it is a fact__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.” Thaw feedback “</span>__Such warming will have an unavoidable impact on hydrates, and we know how. When ice has gone, there are stronger winds and waves and a deeper mixing of water which causes the comparatively warm upper layer to mix with water at deeper levels__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. There are already studies which confirm that in some areas, bottom temperature in summer is 2 to 3 degrees above zero celsius (freezing).This means that when we determine average temperature of the year, it is already somewhere close to zero degrees celsius (the freezing / thaw point). And in some regions – for instance near the mouth of the great Siberian rivers like Lena, that warming can play a very serious role. As this warming spreads to a larger area, the more that shelf-based permafrost will thaw. The impact from global warming on hydrates will cause more winds and warming of surface waters. This will also interact with deeper waters and lead to the increasing of summer temperature to positive (above freezing).”</span>


And, only extraction solves
**__Cohen ‘10__** (Dave Cohen, Association for the Study of Peak Oil & Gas – USA (ASPO-USA), M.A. Theoretical Linguistics, “Methane Hydrates,” Energy Bulletin, 2-11-2010, http://www.energybulletin.net/node/51517)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Well, of course, this makes sense. </span>__We wouldn't want **to inadvertently disturb a big patch of methane hydrates**, which **might lead to the release of a shitload of gas into the water column**, **which would** eventually **lead to its bubbling out of the sea and into the atmosphere**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. You see, </span>**__if the methane in ocean floor hydrates gets loose, that's much__**__, much **worse than if we successfully capture it, pipe it somewhere and burn it**. In this latter case, we only get the carbon emissions from burning the "pure" natural gas (CH4), not the full-blown greenhouse effects of **unadulterated methane in the atmosphere**, which converts to CO2 over time there—**it's 25 times more potent** per molecule [as a greenhouse gas] **than carbon dioxide** on a 100-year basis__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Methane hydrates are stable under low temperatures and high pressures. So, I guess you could say that </span>**__by capturing & burning__** __the natural gas in ocean floor **hydrates, we would be actually saving the planet from the future ruin we might incur if the deep oceans were to warm sufficiently**—due to the burning of fossil fuels like natural gas—**to cause natural degassing**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>


Second, __drilling accidents__ – exploration avoids them
**__Adam ‘5__** (Dave Adam, science correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “US in race to unlock new energy source,” 4-3-2005, http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Its new project will see the drilling vessel Uncle John spend about a month in the Gulf of Mexico, where it will bore down to two of the largest expected methane hydrate deposits in the region. Scientists on the ship will collect samples for experiments to see how the methane might be freed and transported to the surface. This is harder than it sounds. In some deposits the crystals occur in thick layers, in others they are found as smaller nuggets. </span>**__Puncture one hydrate reservoir and the giant release of gas can disrupt drilling__**__, pierce another and getting the methane out is like sucking porridge through a straw__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__This unpredictable nature means **energy companies traditionally view hydrates as a nuisance**. **This gives them a joint interest with the US government as both sides want to know where the crystals are - one to avoid them and the other to exploit them**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Mr Boswell said: "</span>**__We have a marriage of near-term industry interests and longer-term government interests__**__. **If they develop the ability to detect hydrates for the purpose of avoiding them, that's useful for people who want to do the exact same thing for the purpose of finding them**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">." Devinder Mahajan, a chemist at the US department of energy's laboratory in Brookhaven, is looking for ways to encourage subsea hydrate deposits to release their methane. He has developed a pressurised tank that allows scientists to study hydrate formation. "You fill the vessel with water and sediment, put in methane gas and cool it down under high pressure. After a few hours, the hydrates form, you can actually see it. They look like ice, but they're not," he said. "This is a very important issue, tied to our future national energy security."</span>


And, new extraction technology is safe – beginning production as soon as possible is the only way to avoid massive methane release
**__Rennie ‘11__** (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011, http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/)
__Estimates of how much methane is tied up in hydrates globally vary widely but are on the order of 1,000,000 trillion cubic feet. Most of that is flatly unattainable__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, explains Ray Boswell, the methane hydrates technology manager for the U.S. Department of Energy’s National Energy Technology Laboratory. </span>__Nevertheless__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, in 2010, he and Timothy S. Collett, a research geologist for the U.S. Geological Survey, estimated that </span>__even if gas producers restricted themselves to the most workable, sandy formations, the amount of recoverable methane in hydrates could be around 10,000 trillion cubic feet. That quantity compares favorably to the roughly 16,200 trillion cubic feet__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> that the M.I.T. Energy Initiative’s 2010 “Future of Natural Gas” report lists as </span>__recoverable from all of the world’s remaining conventional sources__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__That much natural gas ought to be irresistible if it can be captured safely and economically__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. No one yet knows whether it really can but the signs are at least currently promising. </span>__Originally, **people thought that gas companies might** need to **mine** the **hydrates by dredging the bottom of the ocean** for them. **That perception blunted interest in** the **hydrates** as an energy source **for years because such an approach would have** been costly and inefficient, and raised the specter of **disrupted hydrate formations accidentally releasing great clouds of methane**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">—the last thing that our greenhouse gas-beset planet would need right now. </span>__Fortunately, **a vastly better way has come to light**: preliminary studies suggest that **wells dug into very deep sandy hydrate formations can simply pump methane and water to the surface**. **The opportunities for methane leakage are minimal because the hydrates are** so **deeply sealed beneath other sediments and** because **they spontaneously refreeze as soon as the pumping stops**. The potential for **an uncontrollable wellhead blowout like** the one that destroyed the **Deepwater Horizon** and polluted the Gulf Coast **thus appears to be impossible**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Researchers are also looking into another way of tapping the hydrates that involves injecting carbon dioxide into them. The carbon dioxide can displace the trapped methane in the hydrates and release it for collection. An additional advantage of this approach would be that it would sequester the CO2 beneath the seafloor, which could only help further in attempts to curtail climate change from industrial emissions__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. (See my article for more details on both these pumping approaches.) But of course, in the real world, a capability to use methane hydrates as a source of natural gas won’t matter unless it can do so cost-competitively. And right now, gas companies and politicians are most keenly excited about the relatively new prospect of using horizontal drilling and controversial “fracking” techniques to capture the natural gas inside oil shale formations. The U.S. Energy Information Administration notes that “adding the identified shale gas resources to other gas resources increases total world technically recoverable gas resources by over 40 percent to 22,600 trillion cubic feet.” It may be tough for methane hydrates, as a new and unorthodox gas resource that may not be able to reach a significant commercial scale for 10 to 15 more years, to make much headway against that competition. Then again, maybe not. Certain factors might be more advantageous to methane hydrate development than one would think. The first is that nations like Japan, which now have huge and expensive industrial energy costs, have extraordinary incentives to use the methane hydrates off their coasts. Japan has already announced that it hopes to begin some level of methane production from its Nankai Trough hydrates by 2018. So whether or not methane hydrates seem to make much economic sense here in the U.S., for example, other countries will be pushing the technology ahead regardless. Energy companies may also see reasons to develop methane hydrates based on synergies with their other interests. In my interview with Timothy Collett of the U.S. Geological Survey, he pointed out that conventional natural gas comes out of the ground carrying a lot of CO2. (For example, the natural gas emerging from Alaska’s North Slope wells is about 10 percent CO2 [pdf].) By law, natural gas producers must remove that CO2 before they can store or transport their product but they cannot release it into the air. Yet </span>__if CO2 sequestration into hydrates proves feasible__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, Collett says, </span>__gas companies could use waste CO2 from their conventional gas wells to drive further methane production from the hydrates__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. He also pointed out that </span>__oil companies working Alaska’s North Slope might find that developing methane hydrates could help them to maintain oil production. As oilfields there run dry, the companies now keep wells alive by pumping gas down into the reservoirs to maintain pressure. The methane from hydrates could become a handy local source of gas for recharging the wells: instead of distributing the methane as fuel, the companies could use it to keep their production of more valuable oil going__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. (That incentive would surely be a mixed blessing in the eyes of climate hawks looking to move the global economy away from production and use of oil and coal. Still, perhaps it is still of value as a lesser-of-two-evils transitional step toward an energy infrastructure in which natural gas can more easily substitute for oil.) It is also not yet a foregone conclusion that natural gas production from oil shales has a clear way forward. Though I am personally pessimistic about the odds of environmental or public health concerns standing in the way of the moneyed energy interests in this case, the huge and unsettled controversies about whether fracking is safe might yet trip up oil shale development. If so, the environmental desirability to find good, affordable sources of natural gas will still exist, which could help sustain interest in methane hydrates. Expanded natural gas development is not ideal from a climate change perspective. </span>**__Burning natural gas for energy__** __is more appealing than using oil or coal because it **produces less CO2** and other particulates—but on a rapidly growing global industrial scale, it still will contribute a lot. **The best result for the environment would be for natural gas to grow as a transitional energy source while solar, wind and other green alternatives become still less expensive and more practical**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. (And making that transition may be a challenge in itself once natural gas is still more entrenched.) Whether methane hydrates can or will play a part in that strategy remains to be seen. </span>__But methane hydrates are not just a resource__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. They remain, more darkly, one of the veiled menaces whose existence should urge action on the climate. The deep hydrate formations that developers might tap seem reasonably secure against big unwanted releases of methane—but the more shallow deposits on parts of the seafloor and under the Siberian and North American permafrosts are not. </span>__If global temperatures continue to rise, and if the oceans (which absorb most of the trapped greenhouse-effect heat) rise in temperature by a few degrees__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> Celsius, </span>__then those more **exposed methane hydrates will begin to decompose on their own**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. How much methane they could abruptly burp into the atmosphere is uncertain, and may depend on the precise circumstances. But </span>**__any additional atmospheric methane will be unwanted and could greatly accelerate greenhouse effects__** __for a few decades, **further complicating any efforts to adapt to the new climate**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Maybe </span>__Neil Young’s lyric “It’s better to burn out than fade away” captures the odd paradox of methane hydrates best. **Better to burn some of their methane in the short run, and suffer a CO2-driven aggravation of greenhouse problems en route to a more sustainable energy solution, than to continue with the energy status quo and wait for melting hydrates to worsen the climate problem for us**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>


Methane release causes extinction – outweighs nuclear war
**__Ryskin ‘3__** (Gregory Ryskin, Department of Chemical Engineering, Northwestern University, “Methane-driven oceanic eruptions and mass extinctions,” Geology, 31(9), September 2003, http://pangea.stanford.edu/research/Oceans/GES205/methaneGeology.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">METASTABILITY AND ERUPTION A liquid subject to gravity and completely or partially saturated with dissolved gas is, thermodynamically, in a metastable state. Consider for clarity the case when the concentration of the dissolved gas is only slightly below saturation throughout, and thus increases downward in accordance with Henry’s law. Then locally there is no tendency for the dissolved gas to exsolve (to form bubbles), in spite of the fact that nuclei are abundant in seawater. (Exsolution would lead to a slight increase in free energy: below saturation, the chemical potential of the gas species is lower in solution than in the free gas phase.) At the same time, the free energy of the system as a whole would be greatly reduced if most of the dissolved gas were to somehow escape from solution and collect above the liquid. (This free energy reduction is due to the fast decrease of the chemical potential of gas with a drop in pressure.) Thus, the system is in a metastable state, albeit an unusual one. Strictly speaking, this state is not an equilibrium one even locally: the increase of the solute concentration with depth causes a diffusion flux directed upward, which, given sufficient time, could bring the system into the above state of minimum free energy. However, the continuous supply of methane by the rising bubbles from the seafloor ensures that the concentration profile will remain nonuniform, slowly approaching the saturation one. Even if that supply were to cease, the diffusion time scales are so long that this path toward the global energy minimum can be ignored. </span>**__A very fast transition__** __from this metastable state **can be triggered by disturbances** that displace fluid a finite distance in the vertical direction. Such disturbances may result **from an earthquake**, a **seafloor volcano, convection currents** due to **geothermal heating, or an internal gravity wave**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Consider a parcel of fluid that is displaced upward, and is now subject to lower hydrostatic pressure, to which corresponds a lower solubility value. As a result, the fluid in the parcel is now supersaturated with the dissolved gas, which must begin to exsolve, forming tiny gas bubbles. (If the fluid in its original position was only partially saturated, exsolution will begin after the parcel has risen through some significant distance, so in this case the initial disturbance must be sufficiently large.) The volume of the ascending parcel of fluid increases due to the formation of bubbles, making it more buoyant and accelerating its rise; this leads to further reduction in the ambient pressure, further exsolution of gas, and further increase in the volume of the parcel. This self-accelerating motion entrains the surrounding fluid; exsolution of the gas in the latter reinforces the motion. The result is a violent eruption (Kling et al., 1987; Zhang, 1996). </span>__From the initial eruption site, **hydrodynamic disturbances propagate in all directions** (via turbulent entrainment and/or internal gravity waves), **triggering eruptions at other sites**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Similarly to transitions from other metastable states (e.g., boiling of a superheated liquid), </span>__the eruption should spread quickly throughout the region of the ocean where the water column is saturated, or partially saturated, with gas__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__In spite of the low solubility of methane in seawater, the total possible increase in the buoyancy of the parcel can be large__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Consider a parcel that started its rise at 4 km depth, where solubility of methane is ;4.3 3 1023. Then, if the parcel had a volume of 18 cm3 (1 mol of water) and was saturated with methane, it contained 4.3 3 1023 mol of dissolved methane. By the time this parcel has risen to the surface, essentially all the methane in the parcel has exsolved (solubility is ;2 3 1025 at the surface). At the surface conditions (T ø 25 8C, P 5 1 bar), 1 mol of any gas occupies 25 3 103 cm3, so the total volume of methane in the parcel is ;108 cm3, and the volume of the parcel, which now contains a mist of water droplets in gaseous methane, is 126 cm3. That is, the volume of the parcel has increased by a factor of seven. Concurrent exsolution of other dissolved gases (e.g., carbon dioxide CO2, hydrogen sulfide H2S) will add to the effect. </span>__A rather similar process is responsible for the most violent, explosive volcanic eruptions__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (called Plinian), such as eruptions of Mount Vesuvius in A.D. 79 or Mount St. Helens in 1980. These eruptions are driven by exsolution of gases (primarily water vapor) dissolved in the liquid magma. In Lake Nyos (Cameroon), CO2 of magmatic origin enters the water column from the bottom, at a depth of ;200 m. In 1986, the lake erupted, creating a gas-water fountain ;120 m in height (Zhang, 1996), and releasing a lethal cloud of CO2. A water surge washed up the shore to a height of ;25 m. The eruption continued for several hours (Kling et al., 1987). OCEANIC ERUPTION AS A CAUSE OF MASS EXTINCTION </span>**__The consequences of a methane-driven oceanic eruption for marine and terrestrial life are likely to be catastrophic__**__. Figuratively speaking, **the erupting region ‘‘boils over,’’ ejecting a large amount of methane** and other gases (e.g., CO2, H2S) **into the atmosphere**, and flooding large areas of land. Whereas pure methane is lighter than air, methane loaded with water droplets is much heavier, and thus spreads over the land, mixing with air in the process (and losing water as rain). **The air-methane mixture is explosive** at methane concentrations between 5% and 15%; **as such mixtures form in different locations near the ground and are ignited by lightning, explosions** 2 **and conflagrations destroy most of the terrestrial life, and also produce great amounts of smoke** and of carbon dioxide. **Firestorms carry smoke and dust into the upper atmosphere, where they** may **remain for several years**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Turco et al., 1991); </span>**__the resulting darkness and global cooling__** __may **provide an additional kill mechanism**. Conversely, carbon dioxide and the remaining methane create the greenhouse effect, which may lead to global warming__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The outcome of the competition between the cooling and the warming tendencies is difficult to predict (Turco et al., 1991; Pierrehumbert, 2002). </span>__Upon release of a significant portion of the dissolved methane, the ocean settles down, and the entire sequence of events (i.e., development of anoxia, accumulation of dissolved methane, the metastable state, eruption) begins anew. **No external cause is required to bring about a methane-driven eruption—its mechanism is self-contained**, and implies that eruptions are likely to occur repeatedly at the same location__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Because methane is isotopically light, its fast release must result in a negative carbon isotope excursion in the geological record. Knowing the magnitude of the excursion, one can estimate the amount of methane that could have produced it. Such calculations (prompted by the methane-hydrate-dissociation model, but equally applicable here) have been performed for several global events in the geological record; the results range from ;1018 to 1019 g of released methane (e.g., Katz et al., 1999; Kennedy et al., 2001; de Wit et al., 2002). These are very large amounts: the total carbon content of today’s terrestrial biomass is ;2 3 1018 g. Nevertheless, relatively small regions of the deep ocean could contain such amounts of dissolved methane; e.g., the Black Sea alone (volume ;0.4 3 1023 of the ocean total; maximum depth only 2.2 km) could hold, at saturation, ;0.5 3 1018 g. A similar region of the deep ocean could contain much more (the amount grows quadratically with depth3). </span>**__Released in a geological instant (weeks, perhaps)__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, 1018 to 1019 g of </span>**__methane could destroy__** __the **terrestrial life** almost **entirely**. **Combustion and explosion**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> of 0.75 3 1019 g of methane </span>**__would liberate energy__** __equivalent to 108 Mt of TNT,; **10,000 times greater than the world’s stockpile of nuclear weapons**, implicated in the nuclear winter scenario__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (Turco et al., 1991). </span>


Any risk of methane release controls your impact calculus – it’s the most probable and only empirical extinction event, and accesses an invisible threshold
**__Dorritie ‘7__** (Dan Dorritie, paleontologist, studies mass extinction events, M.A. Geology, University of California—Davis, “Preface,” //Killer in our Midst//, 2007, http://www.killerinourmidst.com/)
<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">Deep beneath the surface of the sea, buried in the oxygen-depleted muds that have accumulated over the ages on the underwater margins of the continents, lies a vast store of natural gas that probably well exceeds, in its carbon equivalence, the entire supply of all other oil, gas, and coal on the planet. Most of this immense store of natural gas, largely comprised of methane, lies trapped in icy cages called hydrates. Below these hydrates is a huge quantity of methane as free gas bubbles, blocked from release by the hydrate, and temperature and pressure conditions above. Still more methane, as hydrate, is found in the permanently frozen (permafrost) regions that surround the poles. Methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, the gas which is currently warming our globe, even though methane remains in the atmosphere for a much shorter time. </span>__If released abruptly, seafloor methane has the potential to deliver a stunning jolt of heat to the planet's already increasing temperatures. Even if released more gradually, seafloor methane will inevitably compound the problem of global warming. But **abruptly or gradually**, as we warm the planet by our dumping of carbon dioixde into the atmosphere, **the seafloor will** also **warm, and its methane will inevitably be released**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. This book is about the release of that methane, and, in particular, about the possibility of methane catastrophe. </span>**__Methane catastrophes have occurred several times__** __in Earth's history, **and** when they have occurred, they have__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> sometimes </span>**__caused abrupt__** __changes in the history of life, and at least one significant extinction. That **extinction**, at the end of **the Permian** Period 250 million years ago, **is the greatest in** the **history** of life. **More than 90% of** the then-existing **species perished**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, and the course of life on Earth was altered forever. </span>**__If a methane catastrophe were to happen in the near future, it is likely that not only would__** __a considerable percentage of **existing plants and animals be killed off, but a large percentage of the human population** as well, as a result of the climate change and significantly more hostile environmental conditions. Yet we may well be heading toward such a catastrophe__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, produced by our warming of the planet. </span>__Just how rapidly seafloor methane will be released depends on numerous factors that are quite difficult to assess. It is possible that seafloor methane will be released so slowly that it will only have a relatively minor warming effect on Earth's climate. On the other hand__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, because the coming methane release will be the result of our warming of the planet via the burning of fossil and other acrbon fuels, </span>__it could happen much more quickly__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Indeed, it seems that we are currently pumping the greenhouse gas carbon dioxide into the atmosphere at a much faster -- perhaps tens to hundreds of times faster -- rate than has ever before naturally occurred in the last half billion years or so of the Earth's history. The catastrophic warming we are causing is -- to the best of our knowledge -- unprecedented since the early days of our planet, billions of years ago. Such warming could well lead to methane catastrophe. </span>**__The onset of a methane catastrophe would be abrupt__** __because **it could** be initiated by a major submarine landslide, which can **happen in a matter of** days or even **hours**, or by the venting of vast quantities of seafloor methane over a period of decades. These events can take place in what is essentially a geological eyeblink__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Additional slumping and/or venting can continue for centuries to millennia. </span>__The amount of methane that can be released is indeed massive. Estimates of the amount of seafloor methane__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> generally range from about 5000 billion metric tons to around 20,000 billion metric tons (a metric ton is equal to 1.1 imperial tons, the standard ton used in the United States), though they </span>__usually range around 10,000 billion metric tons__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. This amount of methane contains about 7500 billion metric tons of carbon, vastly more than all the estimated carbon in all fossil fuels: petroleum, coal, and natural gas. </span>__There is a simple way to put 10,000 billion metric tons of methane into perspective: it contains about ten times the amount of carbon (largely in the form of carbon dioxide) as does the entire atmosphere__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Moreover, though methane entering the atmosphere is quickly oxidized, it is oxidized to carbon dioxide, so the problem of its warming ability will remain with us for thousands of years into the future. </span>__A methane catastrophe, therefore, is an abrupt surge of greenhouse gas that could rival or exceed the carbon dioxide warming of the planet. It could potentially overwhelm the natural heat regulatory system of the Earth, which operates in a much more gradual way, and on a much more protracted time scale. **The quantity of methane that could be released is so massive there would be no remedial action that people would be able to take to mitigate it** except in the most superficial way. Once a methane catastrophe were to begin, there would be major consequences for the planet and its inhabitants, human and other, and we would be able to do little except wait it out__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Methane, in a very real sense, is the joker in the deck of global warming. As with the current increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide, a large methane release will undoubtedly contribute to an increase in acid rain, and, through its impact on global warming, a further rise of sea level, increased desertification, increased heavy precipitation, and extreme weather events. The slowing of ocean circulation or its actual stagnation because of greater planetary warmth are also possibilities. Such a slowing would paradoxically produce a decreased transport of warm water to the coasts of northeastern North America and northernmost Europe, making for much colder winters. In addition, the destabilization of methane within seafloor sediments can send 20 meter (60 foot) high tsunamis crashing into nearby coastlines. </span>__A methane catastrophe can have other major consequences in addition to sudden global warming. It can accelerate the slow but deadly acidification of the surface ocean__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (down to about 100 meters, or about 300 feet), which is now occurring as a result of the increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere and ocean. </span>__The methane can combine with dissolved oceanic oxygen, depleting the deeper part of the ocean__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;"> (that is, the ocean below about 100 meters) </span>__of oxygen, and killing off the oxygen-using (aerobic) organisms at those depths. As acidification penetrates the deep ocean, even organisms that do not use oxygen (anaerobes) will be affected__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Then there are the worst case scenarios. With the warming of the world ocean, its chemical balance and biological composition will change. The ocean will become stratified, with mixing between its surface and the deep ocean becoming increasingly restricted. </span>__If the deep ocean becomes fully anoxic (devoid of oxygen), it will also become toxic, as the remaining anaerobic organisms pump out the deadly gas hydrogen sulfide. In sufficient quantities, that gas could escape oceanic confinement to poison the atmosphere and, combining with the iron in the blood's hemoglobin, kill terrestrial organisms, including us__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. But the composition of the atmosphere could also change in a second way, because the amount of free oxygen depends on two things: the actual production of oxygen (by the ocean's photosynthetic plankton and terrestrial green plants) and the delivery of large amounts of carbon (as part of a "rain" of organic debris from organisms closer to the surface) to the ocean's bottom. This carbon, if not removed from the global carbon cycle by sinking and eventual burial in the ocean floor, will combine with oxygen and lower its concentration in the atmosphere. Once oceanic anoxia kills off aerobic marine organisms (those which require oxygen to live), the natural regulatory system for carbon will be sent into a tailspin. The amount of organic debris produced in surface waters will likely be reduced, the amount that rapidly descends to the ocean floor will be reduced, and the proportion that gets decomposed on the way to the bottom will be significantly reduced. Exactly how this will play out is unclear, because certain of these changes will operate to slow the removal of carbon from the global carbon cycle (which will act to decrease the amount of oxygen in the atmosphere), while others will enhance it (increasing atmospheric oxygen). When a similar disruption of the marine ecosystem occurred at the end of the Permian, a quarter of a billion years ago, atmospheric oxygen dropped to a fraction (about 2/5ths) of its previous level. But increased oxygen could be just as bad: oxygen ions (sometimes referred to as free radicals) can inflict genetic damage to DNA, causing mutations and cancer. </span>**__We are certainly on the verge of releasing a huge amount of__** __permafrost and **seafloor methane within a very short time**; we may also be on **the brink of methane catastrophe**. By our own actions -- by our continuing and increasing use of carbon fuels -- we are slowly but inexorably creating the conditions during which a such a methane release, catastrophic or more gradual, could occur. **We probably have time to prevent a catastrophe, but there is a** certain non-negligible **possibility that we** have already crossed -- or **will shortly cross** -- **an invisible threshold that will render a methane catastrophe inevitable and unstoppable**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Major anthropogenic global warming by carbon dioxide and possible **methane catastrophe will be events more cataclysmic than any that can befall Earth, except for an** impact with a giant **asteroid** or comet, **or a stellar explosion** in our neighborhood of the Milky Way. These other events, however, are **quite rare and unlikely in our immediate future**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__Major anthropogenic global warming by carbon dioxide and possible **methane catastrophe, by contrast, are highly likely and much more immediate**. More importantly, unlike those other possible cataclysms, both are preventable -- probably -- if we take them seriously, begin to understand them, and -- most difficult of all -- begin to take steps to avert them__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__It has become fashionable to dismiss predictions of catastrophe, partly because they have become so common. Many of us have become jaded, what with one such prediction after another. We used to hear a good deal about nuclear holocaust, or nuclear winter, but as those threats seem to have faded in the public consciousness, there are others which have replaced it. We now hear of doomsday asteroids, the ozone hole, SARS (severe acute respiratory syndrome), bird flu, global warming, and the obliteration of species. The number of threats seems to be increasing__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>__And, actually, that number is increasing. Prior to this epoch in human history, people simply did not have the ability to impact our planet in potentially catastrophic ways. Unfortunately, we now do have that ability__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. The ozone hole is a simple example. Never before was humanity on the verge of destroying this gaseous umbrella which protects us (and all other organisms that live at or near the surface of the Earth) from deadly ultraviolet light. Humanity simply didn't have that kind of power. But the advent of chloro-flouro-carbon (CFC) refrigerants gave us that ability, and the ozone layer sustained significant damage before the problem began to be addressed. Luckily, this is a problem for which there is a ready solution, and by banning the production of these ozone-harming chemicals, we have begun to bring the problem under control. The problem of carbon dioxide emissions, consequent global warming, and </span>__the prospect of a major seafloor methane release__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, however, </span>__will not be addressed so easily. We currently have no technology to trap and hold large quantities of carbon dioxide, and we are not likely to have such a technology for many decades in the future -- if indeed we ever will__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Some of the excess carbon dioxide we produce is in fact currently slipping beyond our potential grasp, entering the oceans at the astounding rate of about a million metric tons (a metric ton = 1.1 standard ton) per hour, and increasing the acidity of seawater. There is, in addition, great resistance in a world economy driven and dominated by fossil fuels to shifting the energy base of that economy. Enormous corporate profits and personal fortunes, and the success of political efforts on their behalf, are also at stake. Slowing the stampede to catastrophically higher global temperatures and ocean destruction will require substantial international effort. </span>**__Even__** __so, **should we today stop spewing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, global temperatures will continue to increase for some time** into the future__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. </span>**__Despite our aversion to warnings of imminent catastrophe, our problem may be that we are not alarmed enough__**<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Because of the delayed consequences of our dumping carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, the major effects of global warming will only be starting just as the world supply of oil is well on its way to depletion (about 2050). But already startling environmental changes -- the early, "minor" effects of global warming -- are occurring on Earth: ·With the exception of 1996, the years from 1995 to 2004 constitute 9 of the 10 warmest years since systematic record keeping began in 1861. ·The year 2005 was the warmest year since records have been kept. The next warmest years, in order, are, 1998, 2002, 2003, and 2004. ·Globally, glaciers have retreated, on average, almost some 15% since 1850. Glacial retreat has been recorded in Tibet, Alaska, Peru, the Alps, Kenya, Antarctica. ·Alaskan temperatures have risen about 2.8°C (5°F) in the past few decades. ·In the past several decades, about 40% of Arctic Ocean sea ice has disappeared. (Some researchers now believe, however, that at least part of this sea ice loss may be due to changing wind patterns over the North Pole, but these wind changes, themselves, may be due to a warming climate.) ·Between 1965 and 1995, the amount of melt water from the Arctic region going into the North Atlantic was about 20,000 cubic kilometers (about 4800 cubic miles), the equivalent of the fresh water in all of the Great Lakes combined (Superior, Huron, Erie, and Ontario) with the exception of Lake Michigan. Preliminary calculations indicate that an additional 18,000 cubic kilometers (4300 cubic miles) or so could shut down ocean circulation in the North Atlantic. That shutdown could occur in two decades or less, though most scientists believe it will take much longer. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, comprised of thousands of climate scientists worldwide, puts the likely slowing at about 25% by 2100. ·Trade winds across the equatorial Pacific have slowed because of higher humidity, and are projected to do so even more as time passes. The increase in humidity is the result of increased evaporation, traceable to global warming. This slowing of Pacific winds will also slow the ocean surface currents that the winds push along. Some scientists fear that at some point "the switch will be tripped" and nutrient-rich bottom water will no longer rise to the surface in the eastern Pacific (a "permanent El Niño" situation which did exist about three million years ago). These waters feed the plankton which feed the anchovies in one of the world's greatest fisheries. Much of the anchovy harvest is dried, ground up, and added to chicken feed, of which it is a major protein constituent. If the switch does trip, good-bye to inexpensive chicken. ·Upper ocean temperatures have risen between 0.5 and 1.0°C (0.9 to 1.8°F) since 1960. Deeper water has also warmed, but not by as much. The total amount of energy that has gone into the oceans as a consequence of global warming, however, is staggering: enough to run the state of California for 200,000 years. ·In addition to significant retreats of the glaciers on Greenland's margins, as of 2005 Greenland's massive ice sheet is melting at more than twice the rate it was in the previous three years. Glaciologists report that portions of the sheet which were solid ice just a few years ago are now riddled with meltwater caverns. ·The deep waters of the Southern Ocean (that which encircles Antarctica) have become significantly colder and less salty than they were just ten years ago. This is presumably due to the melting of Southern Ocean sea ice and parts of the Antarctic ice cap. Deep ocean waters have been previously presumed to be fairly isolated from climate warming but the data obtained from depths of four to five kilometers (more than two to three miles) now suggests otherwise. Such changes could significantly impact global ocean circulation. ·The Southern Ocean, which may absorb more carbon dioxide than any other region of the global ocean, as of more than twenty-five years ago ceased to absorb additional carbon dioxide. In fact, its ability to absorb carbon dioxide seems to be declining -- even as atmospheric levels of that gas are reaching ever higher levels -- most likely due to increased wind speed over that part of the global ocean. The higher wind speed in turn has been attributed to both global warming and the destruction of the Antarctic ozone layer. Because oceans eventually absorb most of the carbon dioxide that goes into the atmosphere, the declining ability of the Southern Ocean to absorb carbon dioxide is a particularly ominous development. ·Huge expanses of floating ice around Antarctica have collapsed into fragments in just weeks, after existing for tens of thousands of years. In addition, the ice that currently covers West Antarctica, known as the West Antarctic Ice Sheet (WAIS), which was quite recently (as of 2001) judged by the UN's Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) as unlikely to collapse before the end of this century, or even for the next millennium, may now be starting to disintegrate, according to the head of the British Antarctic Survey. If this ice sheet does collapse, global sea level will rise by about 5 meters (16 feet). ·While global daytime temperatures, on average, increased only about 0.33°C (0.6°F) between 1979 and 2003, nighttime temperatures have risen more than 1°C (1.8°F). These environmental changes have had significant biological effects: ·In the eastern North Atlantic, warm-water phytoplankton (marine organisms that photosynthesize, produce oxygen, and constitute the bottom of the food chain) has moved north 1000 km (600 miles) over the past 40 years. ·In 2004, almost a quarter of a million breeding pairs of seabirds in islands north of Scotland failed to produce more than a few dozen offspring. Their reproductive failure is most likely due to the North Atlantic phytoplankton changes, and the consequent breakdown of the marine food chain. Many of the affected birds migrate back and forth between the Scottish islands and areas around the Southern Ocean (off Antarctica) over the course of the year. Starved in the north, they will never make it back to the south. Similar changes have been observed off the West Coast of the United States in 2005. ·Krill, small (about 5 cm/2 inches in length), shrimplike creatures which are a main food source for seals, whales, and penguins in the Southern Ocean, have declined in places to just 20% of their previous number in just 30 years. ·Grass now survives the winter in places on the Antarctic Peninsula, the warmest part of that frigid continent. When grass last was able to survive Antarctic winters is unknown. ·In the 17 year period from 1987 to 2003, the number and size of major wildfires in the western U. S. has increased dramatically. Compared to the 17 year period stretching from 1970 to 1986, the number of major wildfires has increased fourfold, and the area burned by major fires has increased sixfold. All of the presumed causes for this increase -- the earlier melting of snow, increased summer temperatures, an extended fire season, and an increase in the area of high-altitude forests which is vulnerable to such fires -- can be traced to global warming. ·The small increase in global nighttime temperatures indicated above (1°C/1.8°F), is sufficient to have reduced the biomass (the total mass of roots, stems, leaves, and grain) of rice, humankind's most important crop, by 10%. Rice is the primary foodstuff for more than half of the population of the world. </span>__With the warming, the release of methane has begun to follow__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">: ·</span>__The Western Siberian Peat Bog__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, comprising an area of a million square kilometers (about 385,000 square miles, roughly the combined size of France and Germany), </span>__has begun to melt__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. This area is underlain by permafrost (permanently frozen ground that has existed since the Ice Age) perhaps a kilometer (about 3000 feet) deep. </span>__The permafrost contains an enormous amount of methane hydrate, possibly as much as a quarter of the total inventory of continental methane. As this permafrost warms and melts -- an irreversible process -- methane is released. This melting may add a quantity of methane to the atmosphere roughly equivalent to that released by all other natural and agricultural sources, increasing global warming by 10 to 25%__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. ·</span>__Already, methane emissions from certain areas of Siberian permafrost is proceeding much more rapidly than previously estimated. These extensive areas__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">, characterized by Ice Age deposits of wind-blown dust (called loess) with high carbon and very high ice (50 to 90%) contents, </span>__are bubbling out methane at a rate five times higher than earlier presumed__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">. Overall, these "yedoma" regions are contributing an additional 10 to 63% the total rate of methane release from the wetlands of the north. </span>__These are only the early effects, ripples from the storm which is to come. **Remedial action is still possible, but the likelihood of catastrophe becomes more certain with each passing year**__<span style="font-size: 10.66px;">.</span>



__Advantage Two is Hosted Payloads__

The NSP signaled benign intent in space development, but political controversy and residual global uncertainty over its implementation continue to deny effective multilateral cooperation on space security
**__Huntley ‘11__** (Wade L. Huntley, Ph.D., senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress,” Disarmament Times, Spring 2011, http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2)
**__U.S. space policy__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> in the two decades since the end of the Cold War </span>**__has been evolving against a backdrop of uncertainty__**__. Technological developments shape and redistribute power resources relevant to space security activities, and **game-changing advances in space technologies could emerge at any time**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Also, space activities involve an increasing number and variety of actors. Whereas states have been dominant in the past, recent trends suggest an increasing trend toward privatization of space activities, with private launches and space tourism on the horizon. While the same context influences many other countries as well, </span>__the central role of U.S. space activities on the global stage generates particular attention. This is especially true of U.S. policies and activities regarding military security in space. The U.S. space security position is widely understood to be world dominant, and so U.S. behavior naturally overshadows and shapes the behavior of others. U.S. behavior, however, does not necessarily “set the tone.” Rather, the reactions of other countries and non-state actors to the directions of U.S. policies and activities are inevitably filtered through their own outlooks. **Although cooperative and multilateral tacks in U.S. government policies generally have a palliative effect on the global atmosphere, U.S. policy-makers do not characteristically assume that cooperative gestures will routinely elicit quid pro quo responses**. **That additional uncertainty underlies** **the ongoing tension between “nationalist” and “internationalist” impulses in U.S. policy-making on space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> (as on many other issues) </span>**__and in turn magnifies global uncertainties concerning the future of space governance__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. During the Cold War, national security concerns dominated U.S. space activities. While manned missions and commercial opportunities occupied prominent positions in the public image, with NASA becoming the “face” of the U.S. space posture, activities from Sputnik onward were inspired by — and funding for them justified by — the underlying security competition with the Soviet Union. Importantly for current circumstances, this Cold War posture became entrenched in core attitudes and bureaucratic practices across much of the space community. As a result, </span>__even as Cold War ended, U.S. space policy could not easily diverge from its focus on national security__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. For example, the 1996 National Space Policy issued by the Clinton administration, while envisioning greater “partnership and cooperation” internationally, aimed to maintain a U.S. “leadership role” across the full range of space activities. Guidelines for security activities in space were prominent, and while these guidelines included provisions for arms control as well as expressly military activities, the policy less effectively explained how tensions in these aims would be reconciled.1 Moreover, the overarching tone of the policy was to view U.S. space activities as derivative of broader national goals, rather than constituting national goals in themselves, continuing a trend since the end of the Apollo missions. As is well understood, </span>__the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented toward military security concerns and independent action__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The 2006 National Space Policy unabashedly proclaimed the U.S. intention to maintain a dominant position in space indefinitely. This policy orientation dismissed multilateral cooperation as impinging on U.S. “freedom of action,” throwing weight instead behind a wide range of technology development initiatives founded on the assumption that deployment of weapons in space was, if not already factual, certainly inevitable.2 U.S. commercial and civil engagement was overshadowed by these security concerns, expressed through the tightening of export control restrictions inhibiting a broad range of technology sharing. Once again, U.S. space policy was subsumed by other national priorities, in this case dominated by military security concerns. </span>__This background is essential for appreciating how the space policies of the Obama administration are beginning to genuinely break new trails. **The** U.S. **N**ational **S**pace **P**olicy issued in June 2010 **has been widely recognized for its cooperative and multilateral tone**, including as explicit near-term goals the expansion of international cooperation on all activities and pursuing international as well as national measures to enhance space stability. Particularly notable are the document’s emphasis on orienting U.S. “leadership” toward fostering international cooperation__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, and its references, in its concluding section, to cooperation with other states and non-state actors in the pursuit of national security space objectives.3 Less broadly noticed was this policy’s clarity and coherence in articulating a vision for U.S. space activities on its own terms. The document is organized around core principles, subsidiary goals and implementing guidelines that exceed its predecessors in delineating a longer-term direction for U.S. space policy that is integrated with, rather than derivative of, broader U.S. global aims.4 The policy also was generated and issued far earlier in the tenure of the administration than either of its predecessors, indicating an increased prioritization of attention to space policy at higher levels of policy-making. To some degree, a turn toward multilateral cooperation in U.S. space policy was to be expected. China’s 2007 anti-satellite weapon (ASAT) test and the 2009 Iridium-Cosmos collision increased awareness of the challenge of space debris and the need for better global information sharing on space situational awareness (SSA).5 Also, new budget realities and unpromising technological developments have scaled back ambitions in some quarters for solving U.S. space security concerns with new independent capabilities. Finally, the Obama administration has pursued a more cooperative disposition across a wide range of global policy challenges, from Iranian nuclear ambitions to global climate change. But the improved clarity of vision in the 2010 Space Policy suggests that the emphasis on fostering global cooperation on space-related activities is more grounded in deliberate foresight than sailing the prevailing political winds. The 2011 National Security Space Strategy, released February 4, is best interpreted against this background of the Obama administration’s turn toward both greater international space cooperation and greater attention to space policy in general. This first-of-its-kind strategic statement culminates a congressionally mandated space posture review.6 The initial section portraying the strategic environment to which U.S. security policy must be responsive highlights the growing problems of space debris, orbital congestion and coordination among a growing number of space actors — not state-based security threats per se. The Security Space Strategy features the objective of a “stable space environment in which nations exercise shared responsibility.”7 Specific provisions intended to implement this strategy, relevant to the preceding observations, include:8 • The strategy presents a full section on “Partnering with Responsible Nations, International Organizations, and Commercial Firms.” This category is not wholly multilateral in the traditional sense, displaying a symbiosis of alliance-building and collective cooperation not always carefully distinguished; i.e., “The United States will lead in building coalitions of like-minded space-faring nations and, where appropriate, work with international institutions to do so.” • The strategy intends to “encourage responsible behavior in space and lead by the power of example,” a significant observation given the tendency of U.S. policy-makers (as noted above) not to expect quid pro quo responses to cooperative gestures. Also, the strategy states the U.S. “will support development of data standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building measures, and norms of behavior for responsible space operations.” [italics added] In the context of the section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression,” the strategy similarly intends to “support diplomatic efforts to promote norms of responsible behavior in space” as well as “pursue international partnerships that encourage potential adversary restraint,” along with other measures. This emphasis on norm-building and the role of example suggests a near-term endorsement of the development of “codes of conduct” for space activities (such as the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct, discussed below), whether or not such concord leads to more formal arms control arrangements in the longer-term. • The Department of Defense is directed to “foster cooperative SSA relationships,” and to “expand provision of safety of flight services to U.S. Government agencies, other nations, and commercial firms.” Greater SSA information sharing has been a key suggestion for fostering international cooperation; the U.S. possesses globally superior SSA capabilities, but restricts the sharing of this information on the basis of national security concerns.9 Hence, this nominal commitment is significant in its own right. • The strategy commits to reforming export controls. “In particular, as new opportunities arise for international collaboration, a revised export control system will better enable the domestic firms competing for these contracts.” As noted above, the oppressive impact of current U.S. export controls not only impinges on U.S. commercial space actors but also epitomizes the high degree to which U.S. policy has subsumed commercial and civil interests to national security concerns. The strategy appears to acknowledge this connection and commit to remedy it. • The most assertive passages of the statement are moderated with community-building intent. For example, the strategy’s section on “Preventing and Deterring Aggression” concludes that the U.S. “will retain the right and capabilities to respond in self-defense, should deterrence fail,” but immediately adds that the U.S. “will use force in a manner that is consistent with longstanding principles of international law, treaties to which the United States is a party, and the inherent right of self defense.” • The concluding and most conflict-oriented section of the strategy opens by noting that “some actors may still believe counterspace actions could provide military advantage.” Counterspace capabilities, unarticulated in the document, include ASATs, ground-based directed energy weapons and satellite transmission jamming. Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy Gregory Schulte explained at the strategy’s rollout that China is a principal concern in this regard, but so is the proliferation of these technologies: “If Ethiopia can jam a commercial satellite, you have to worry what others can do.”10 This section of the strategy does not, however, call for maintaining options to develop complementary space conflict capabilities. Rather, the strategy asserts that the U.S. “must be prepared to ‘fight through’ a degraded environment,” and identifies “resilience” and “space protection” as the key criteria. The preceding survey of elements of the 2011 National Security Space Strategy is deliberately selective, highlighting those elements expressing consistency with the 2010 National Space Policy’s bend toward fostering greater international collaboration. Perhaps as striking as the prevalence of such passages, however, is the absence of expressed intention — even couched in hedging language — to sustain or expand the kind of independent space-based military capabilities that were the centerpiece of the prior administration’s aims (if not its accomplishments). Again, to some extent this turn in tone is overdetermined by extenuating global circumstances. But one must still be struck by the degree to which developments such as the Chinese ASAT test have not ignited the kind of response one might have anticipated only a few short years after Donald Rumsfeld’s notorious warning of a “space Pearl Harbor.”11 </span>__The most immediate significance of the National Security Space Strategy is likely the signals its sends concerning U.S. policy__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> toward the recently revised European Union Code of Conduct.12 The strategy did not explicitly endorse this EU initiative, but Mr. Schulte, at the February 4 presentation of the strategy, highlighted the initiative </span>__“as a potential way” to promote “transparency and confidence-building measures__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, which tend to be voluntary as opposed to legally binding.” A week earlier, Rose Gottemoeller, Assistant Secretary of State for Arms Control, Verification and Compliance, stated at the Conference on Disarmament that the administration was nearing a decision on whether the U.S. would sign on to the code, and what modifications might be required in order to do so.13 As U.S. interest in the Code of Conduct has increased, debates over its provisions and its relationship to the Outer Space Treaty have intensified. </span>**__These policy movements toward multilateral engagement__** __and commitment to behavioral standards (even if non-binding) **mark a sharp departure from the stiff resistance to curtailing U.S. “freedom of action” in the previous administration, and have accordingly generated resistance from congressional opponents on just those terms**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Prior to the release of the National Security Space Strategy, a group of 37 Republican senators led by Arizona Senator Jon Kyl issued a letter to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton expressing concern over a potential multilateral commitment that might limit development and/or deployment of space-based missile defense interceptors and ASAT-defeating systems.14 </span>__Critics also decried the strategy’s emphasis on “the old fallacious assumption that the power of example will prevent adversaries from doing the United States harm,” and endorsed maintaining the goal of U.S. retention of a “dominant position in military and intelligence space capabilities.”__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">15 In fact, the administration’s warming toward normative commitments in general — and the EU Code of Conduct in particular — are in part intended to forestall pressure for more formal and binding measures that would definitively cut off the “hedge” of unilateral U.S. weapons development options.16 </span>**__The balance of U.S. debate may have shifted toward greater international cooperation, but the terms of the debate remain the same__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In sum, the National Security Space Strategy appears to mark not only a swing in U.S. policy toward greater global engagement but also, and more importantly, a step toward greater long-term coherence in thinking concerning the core goals of U.S. space activities. Even supporters of the general directions of the strategy noted its more-than-expected breadth of thought.17 </span>__But if this reading is sound, **the strategy is still but one step on a long road, and ongoing debates over the role of U.S. space policy vis-à-vis broader national security interests will insure that road is bumpy**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Suggesting such limitations, Mr. Schulte acknowledged that the classified version of the strategy is only four pages longer than the released version, indicating that </span>__more **specific guidelines for military implementation** of the strategy **remain to be developed**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.18 </span>**__Many devils may lurk in these details__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>


Specifically, the NSP rhetorically committed to hosted military payloads, but it won’t be implemented for a decade
**__Hudson ‘11__** (Katie Hudson, “National Security Space Strategy Brings Opportunity for Hosted Payloads,” Hosted Payloads: presented by Space News, 2-7-2011, http://www.hostedpayload.com/blog/national-security-space-strategy-brings-opportunity-for-hosted-payloads)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">Last Friday, the U.S. Defense Department released the new National Security Space Strategy. The decade long policy is meant to help direct the U.S. Government in terms of Obama’s National Space Policy. Deputy Defense Secretary, Gregory Schulte said this policy is aimed at making the United States "more resilient" and capable of protecting its holdings in an increasingly trafficked and at times hostile setting. </span>**__In the N__**__ational **S**pace **P**olicy__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, announced in June 2010, </span>**__an emphasis was put on the “reliance on commercial space activities” including “hosting government payloads on commercial spacecraft__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> and purchasing of data products.” Schute also mentioned that </span>__U.S. Defense Department officials are working with Australia on sharing space situational awareness and are figuring out how the DoD can host payloads on their satellites. “And we’re looking for a whole range of activities to implement the new strategy in a budget-constrained environment__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">,” he said. In an article on MSNBC.com, it was mentioned that </span>**__both the N__**__ational **S**ecurity **S**pace **S**trategy **and the** **N**ational **S**pace **P**olicy **reflect a policy shift in response to space security**. **There is now a focus on the threats of anti-satellite weapons and the growing amount of space debris**. We are also in a time where there are **almost 60 different commercial companies or countries** that own or **operate assets in space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>**__Both the Space Policy and the Security Strategy come at an important time in the space world__**__. **Given tight budgets, and possibly even tighter budgets in the future, international cooperation will be helpful**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In the MSNBC.com article, Schulte stated that </span>**__the D__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">epartment </span>**__o__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">f </span>**__D__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">efense </span>**__has begun talking about hosting payloads on commercial satellites__** __in the "budget-constrained environment__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">." </span>**__The policy is not expected to be actually implemented for another ten years__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. By then, will the threat of space debris become a crisis? Having multiple payloads on board a satellite would help decrease the amount of debris down the line, but the question remains:How soon till a policy is actually implemented?</span>


That’s because they’re restricted to experimental missions – Congressional action is key
**__Selding ‘11__** (Peter B. de Selding, “CHIRP Delay Holds Lessons for U.S. Air Force, Industry,” Space News, 9-12-2011, http://www.spacenews.com/military/110912-chirp-delay-lessons-af-industry.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">In a presentation here Sept. 12 at the World Satellite Business Week conference, Kathy Shockey, vice president of research and business development at commercial satellite builder Space Systems/Loral of Palo Alto, Calif., said Loral estimates that nine commercial telecommunications satellites per year built by U.S. and European manufacturers could be made available for hosted payloads seeking a ride to geostationary orbit 36,000 kilometers over the equator. Burgess cautioned that </span>**__most commercial__** __telecommunications **satellites are designed to be able to launch on at least two of the world’s principal commercial rockets**. The two dominant commercial launch providers now are Evry, France-based **Arianespace and** International Launch Services (**ILS**) of McLean, Va. ILS is owned by the Russian government-controlled Khrunichev Space Center of Moscow, which builds the Russian Proton heavy-lift **rockets** marketed worldwide by ILS__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Burgess said </span>**__the Air Force accepted CHIRP’s__** __**launch aboard a European rocket, but would have hesitated before permitting** its **launch** aboard an ILS Proton vehicle, which is operated **from Russia**’s Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Loverro said that with a little extra effort, the Air Force CHIRP team might have secured U.S. Air Force approval for an ILS Proton launch as well. But he added: “It would not have been our first choice.” </span>**__Current U.S. government policy permits U.S. government payloads to launch on non-U.S. rockets only if the payloads are experimental in nature__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, as is CHIRP. Loverro said </span>__the next step will be to secure a decision to allow operational payloads to use non-U.S. rockets__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In a statement issued Sept. 14, the Air For Space and Missile Systems Center said, “</span>__[t]he policy currently in place is limited to military experimental hosted payloads and in the future **there will have to be a Congressional campaign to allow** operational **hosted payloads on a foreign** U.S. **launcher for commercial opportunities**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. “This does not address all U.S. government experimental payloads. </span>__The new, much anticipated **Arianespace launch with** **the first U.S. commercially hosted payload is the beginning of a new way of ridesharing to space**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">,” the statement concludes. </span>**__In recent years, U.S.-built rockets have been virtually absent from the commercial launch landscape because of their price and__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> what some satellite owners view as their </span>**__lack of availability__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>


The plan is essential to move beyond the lip service of the NSP – creates a formal procurement mechanism and standardizes technical interfaces
**__Rhodes ‘11__** (Rhodes Communications, “To Catch a Moving Train,” Space News International, 5-2-2011, http://rhodescomm.com/_literature_102214/To_Catch_a_Moving_Train)
**__The U.S. Defense Department's fast-fading opportunity to piggyback a military mission aboard__** __Iridium Communications‘ **next-generation satellite constellation underscores the need for a formal mechanism** and procedures **by which government agencies, the Pentagon in particular, can identify and capitalize on brewing hosted payload opportunities**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Perhaps the biggest challenge associated with hosted payloads is that government and commercial entities operate on different time scales. Commercial satellite operators, for whom time is money, set and largely adhere to tight schedules for deploying new capabilities. Large government bureaucracies, on the other hand, barring a genuine emergency can rarely muster a relatively simple investment decision within the narrow opening that a commercial development program offers. Since few commercial satellite operators can afford to put manufacturing programs on hold while awaiting a government commitment to get on board never mind the arrival of an integration-ready payload — it's likely that most such opportunities will be missed. Iridium, for example, must replace a constellation of some 66 low-orbiting satellites that were launched mainly in the late l990s. An independent analysis has determined that the current Iridium ﬂeet should last until 2017 or so, which puts the company on a relatively tight schedule forgetting the Iridium Next replacement constellation built, launched aboard multiple rockets and then checked out on orbit. Iridium has long made clear that hosting government payloads is part of the Iridium Next business plan. The company even reserved space and power aboard each of the satellites for hosted payloads, assigning the rights to market that real estate — for a price — to Orbital Sciences Corp. which is under contract to perform ﬁnal assembly and integration of the spacecraft. </span>__The fact that the Pentagon hasn't jumped at the opportunity is not due to a lack of interest__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, according to Iridium Chief Executive Matt Desch, who noted there were ideas for applications that would have taken up a significant portion if not all of the Iridium Next hosted payload capacity. He wasn't specific, but </span>__one could easily envision leveraging the constellation to deploy orbital surveillance or space weather monitoring capabilities with global coverage__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> for a very modest price. </span>**__The problem__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, he said, </span>**__is the Pentagon's massive procurement bureaucracy has yet to adapt to doing business this way__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. "l am afraid </span>**__this is going to be a very big thing in the next I0 years —and not, as it should be, in the next two or three years__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">," he said at a recent conference. It would be easy to criticize the Pentagon for fumbling such a big and rare opportunity — another commercial satellite program of this scale isn't likely to come along for another TD to l5 years, if at all — but it also would be unfair; this was going to be a tough train to catch under any circumstances. Although lridium's plans for hosting govemment payloads have been known for years, it was not until mid-2010 that the company secured the financing to build the satellites and awarded the prime contract to Thales Alenia Space. </span>__Given Iridium's end-of-2012 deadline for securing hosted payload commitments, the Pentagon effectively had some two-and-a-half years to design a program utilizing all or at least a signiﬁcant portion of Iridium Next's capacity, marshal the necessary resources and win approvals across the chain of command and from Congress__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. That's probably asking too much; big govemment bureaucracies simply don't move that quickly. Nr. Desch remains hopeful of selling most of the Iridium Next hosted payload space to other U.S. government customers, such as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and even the Pentagon could still ﬁnd a way to utilize at least some of the capacity, albeit on a much smaller scale than Iridium originally envisioned. But if Iridium represents an elusive, once-in-a-decade opportunity, </span>__there are literally dozens of far more accessible opportunities to place payloads aboard commercial geostationary orbiting satellites, 20 or more of which are launched every year__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Geostationary satellite owners have been pitching the hosted payload concept for years but to date have gotten only a handful of takers. Established ﬁxed satellite services providers have steady and predictable fleet replacement cycles and there are enough of them such that the government can count on multiple opportunities with similar characteristics each year. </span>**__The Pentagon faces signiﬁcant declines in its space budget in the coming years even as its demand for space-based services continues to grow__**__. The White House. meanwhile, has made it ofﬁcial policy to leverage commercial space capabilities wherever possible. **It is time to move beyond the lip service Pentagon officials have paid to the hosted payload concept and set up a program** **specifically designed to identify military needs — both** **experimental and operational** — **that could be met with payloads compatible with multiple commercial platforms** that go into assembly in any given year__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>__Industry could help the cause by **developing standard interfaces that government piggyback payloads could be designed to**. That way, if a payload misses its targeted flight opportunity, another suitable ride will come along sooner rather than later__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The Hosted Payload Alliance. an industry group created to educate prospective government customers on the topic, could play an important role in getting government and manufacturers to agree on common interface standards. </span>__The current ﬂeet replenishment cycle of the major geostationary satellite operators is winding down, but **there still should be plenty of opportunities to exploit in the next few years**. Certainly **there will be no excuse for missing the next big fleet replenishment wave**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. The lridium experience, by virtue of its high profile, is </span>__a wake-up call for the Defense Department to finally get serious about leveraging what to date has been an underutilized commercial space resource__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>


This uniquely cements cooperation in three ways – __institutionalizes__ engagement, provides the __diplomatic capital__ to pursue a multilateral agenda, and ensures the U.S. is __perceived__ as committed
**__Berteau ‘10__** (David Berteau, adjunct professor at Georgetown University, Senior Adviser and Director, CSIS DIIG, and Gregory Kiley, Senior Associate focusing on national security and economics, both Project Directors, CSIS Defense-Industrial Initiatives Group, Center for Strategic and International Studies, “National Security and the Commercial Space Sector,” July 2010, p.32-36, [[http://csis.org/files/publication/100726_Berteau_CommcialSpace_WEB.pdf]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">A. Option Set I: Leverage foreign launch providers </span>**__Multinational alliances and globalization across the entire commercial space sector__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, especially in</span> <span style="font-size: 9.33px;">the communications satellite segment, </span>**__have increased tremendously__**__, presenting both new challenges and opportunities for U.S. national security__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.’ The March 12, 2010, Space Posture Review: Interim Report states, “Growing international and commercial interest and expertise in space presents opportunities for the United States for further collaboration and partnership in support of U.S. national security space activities, and the global community at large.” This option set explores two approaches to leveraging foreign launch providers—(l) </span>**__the U.S. government may enter into explicit partnerships with foreign providers to assure launch for__** __commercial and **government payloads**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">; or (2) the U.S. government may reevaluate, remove, or streamline certain export control policies and regulations. While the analysis and evaluation of this option set focuses on improving commercial launch customers‘ access to space, </span>__the **policies and actions regarding foreign launch providers have been in the past—and** most likely **will continue to be—used to leverage trade policy, technology control and innovation policy, geopolitics, and national security**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. U.S. government interaction with foreign launch providers has a complex history, often following several avenues at once and often at cross purposes. A. l. Possible actions. </span>__Recognizing the importance of commercial launch capabilities internationally and nationally, **the U.S. government could explore avenues to leverage the world launch market by entering into strategic partnerships**. **Current U.S. government international cooperation—including DoD partnerships to conduct space operations—is a patchwork of agreements that vary** according to the nations involved **and make collaboration among multiple partners more difficult**. This patchwork reﬂects the simple fact that **there is no coherent**. structured **U.S. government strategy for commercial space access that can create synergies within international relationships**. The Space Posture Review: Interim Report notes, “The long history of cooperation in civilian space programs and **U.S. government partnerships with commercial space service providers can serve as a foundation for collaborative global action to shape the future space environment**." **One example of such collaboration would be a U.S. government-Arianespace**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, ILS, CGWIC, or ISRO‘ </span>**__partnership to utilize foreign launch sites__** __and assure launch access prioritization. **The U.S. government would enter into negotiations to assure mutual access to and sharing of industrial base** capacities and **capabilities**. **Such arrangements could begin with national security assets on commercial satellites with hosted payloads**. The main goal would be to view the launch enterprise as a global one, with a global industrial base and global interests. One goal, from a U.S. perspective, would be to ensure it maintains access to space in the face of technical launch problems or natural or man-made disasters affecting U.S. launch sites__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. To more effectively leverage foreign launch providers and improve access for commercial launch customers, the United States should consider using existing legal authority, such as detailed in the Foreign Relations Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and I991, to issue export authorizations for commercial satellite launches, consistent with national security requirements, to all foreign launch providers. The United States should also seek to reform its complex system of U.S. export control laws and regulations. U.S. access to foreign space capabilities faces a signiﬁcant challenge because of this complex system, which fails to acknowledge the dynamics of global space commerce. Action to address this could consist of statutory and regulatory reform, including, but not limited to, possible changes to the ITAR that implement the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778). In the last several years, the Departments of State, Defense, and Commerce have undertaken numerous export control reviews with a push toward actionable recommendations. Most recently, President Obama formed an interagency task force in August 2009 to review export regulations. He announced initial results of his administration's efforts at a March 2010 U.S. Export-Import Bank conference, noting that the “reform program will enhance national security by focusing on the enforcement of strict controls around the export of the most critical technologies and products, while strengthening the competitiveness of key manufacturing industries in the U.S. by streamlining the regulations that apply to their exports“ Several options are under consideration for reforming this system: In Congress, efforts7 are under way to update the Export Administration Act, writ large, and several legislators have voiced strong support, in particular for moving satellites and related components from the State Department-administered U.S. Munitions List (USML) to the Commerce Department-administered Commercial Control List (CCL). These endeavors complement broader efforts in the executive branch to reform the “byzantine amalgam of authorities, roles, and missions scattered around different parts of the federal government" and update antiquated Cold War restrictions found in the Arms Export Control Act and Export Administration Act, in part by creating a single export control list. ln April 2010, Secretary of Defense Robert Gates outlined an export control reform plan that includes “a single export-control list, a single licensing agency, a single enforcement-coordination agency, and a single information-technology system,“ with possible changes enacted before the end of the year. Although implementation details remain undeﬁned, including the extent and likelihood of needed legislation, this plan has the potential to reform to a signiﬁcant degree U.S. export control policies and administration. A third approach would involve using a last-tracking system such as the one developed alter the launch of Operation Enduring Freedom: executive branch agencies could identify tiers of allies for which to speed up reviews while operating within existing legislation and using existing control lists. Reforming the “rule set“ for how ITAR is applied could also be valuable by offering a reassessment of which technologies need to be controlled for export and dealing with issues of timing. review. transparency. and cost in the export licensing process.” A.2. Potential beneﬁts. As the Space Posture Review: Interim Report states succinctly: “</span>**__New opportunities for partnership__** __and collaboration **with both international and commercial space actors have the potential to support future national security space activities and enhance U.S. leadership**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">."" </span>**__Forming alliances__**__. **Encouraging cooperation with foreign entities** could provide several beneﬁts to the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates, </span>__including ensuring continued U.S. access to space after a technical failure or a launch facility calamity. strengthening the competitive position of the U.S. commercial satellite sector. **enhancing the U.S. position in partnerships, and reinforcing collaboration among other space-faring nations**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. As the Booz, Allen 8: Hamilton 2000 defense industry "Viewpoint" notes, </span>__strategic commercial alliances: (l) provide capabilities to expand quickly service offerings and markets in ways not possible under time and resource constraints; (2) earn a rate of return 50 percent higher than base businesses—"retums more than double as ﬁrms gain experience in alliances"; and (3) are a powerful altemative to acquiring other companies because they “avoid costly accumulation of debt and buildup of balance sheet goodwill." ‘Z In those respects. **international commercial alliances could help U.S. ﬁrms access foreign funding, business systems. space expertise, technology, and intellectual capital and increase U.S. industry's market share overseas, thus providing economic beneﬁts** to the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates. </span>__Moreover. **U.S. experiences with foreign entities in foreign markets could help those entities obtain the requisite approvals to operate U.S. govemment satellite systems in other countries, resolve satellite spectrum and coordination issues, and mitigate risks associated with catastrophic domestic launch failures** by providing for contingency launch capabilities from foreign nations__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>**__Multinational alliances would also signal U.S. policymakers’ intent to ensure U.S. commercial and military access to space within a cooperative, international domain, help promote international cooperation, and build support for U.S. positions within various govemmental and business forums__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>__First, **partnerships could allow the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span>**__to demonstrate greater leadership in mitigating those shared risks related to vulnerability of space assets through launch facility and data sharing, offering improved space situational awareness, establishing collective security agreements for space assets, exploring space deterrence and satellite security doctrines, and formulating and agreeing to rules of the road on the expected peaceful behavior in the space domain__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.” </span>__Second, **partnerships could also help the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span>**__build consensus__** __on important space-related issues **in bilateral or multilateral organizations such as the U**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__N__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">ations, </span>__the International Telecommunication Union, **and the W**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">orld </span>**__T__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">rade </span>**__O__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">rganization; </span>**__working with emerging spacefaring nations is particularly important because of their growing presence in__** __the marketplace and participation in **international organizations**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">." </span>__Third, **alliances could serve as a bridge to future collaborative etforts** between U.S. national security forces and U.S. allies__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. For example, civil multinational alliances such as the Intemational Space Station and the intemational search and rescue satellite consortium. Cospas-Sarsat. involve </span>__multiple countries partnering to use space for common public global purposes__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.“ </span>__Finally. developing govemment. business, and professional relationships with people in other countries provides opportunities for the U__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>__S__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span>__to further the principles upon which U.S. national security relies—competition, economic stability, and democracy__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>


That prevents aggression in space
**__Lynn ‘11__** (William J. Lynn, III, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, “A Military Strategy for the New Space Environment,” The Washington Quarterly, Summer 2011, http://www.twq.com/11summer/docs/11summer_Lynn.pdf)
**__To respond to the proliferation of counterspace weapons, the U__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">tates </span>**__is employing new ways to prevent and deter aggression__** __against U.S. and allied space systems. In the contested space environment of today, **we can no longer rely solely on the threat of retaliation to protect space systems from attack**. **We must expand our traditional concepts of deterrence**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Accordingly, </span>__the National Security Space Strategy outlines the multilayered approach we will take to deter aggression__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. This approach includes several important initiatives. </span>__First, we are assessing **diplomatic initiatives such as the EU Code of Conduct to promote international norms of responsible behavior**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. These initiatives define how responsible space-faring nations are expected to conduct themselves </span>**__and__** __**should over time discourage destabilizing acts that threaten the overall stability of the space domain**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Nations willfully acting contrary to such norms can expect to be isolated as rogue actors. </span>__Second, **we can utilize** **alliances in space** to **serve the same deterrent function as basing troops** **in allied countries**. **They can ensure an attack on one is an attack on all**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>**__As with terrestrial defense alliances, partnerships in space also can add resilience and capabilities__**__, without relinquishing the strategic advantage our systems provide__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. At their fullest, </span>__these partnerships could consist of completely interoperable systems in which costs, benefits, and risks are shared among trusted participants__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. For instance, Australia recently became a full partner in the Wideband Global Satellite Communications System (WGS), which directly supports warfighters. The cost-savings from our partnership with Australia allowed the Pentagon to procure an additional satellite for the WGS constellation. By sharing the benefits and risks of developing this system, we enhanced our operational capability and raised the cost of aggression against it. </span>**__Increasingly, we will want to operate in coalitions in space, just as we do in other domains__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. To achieve this, the department will examine all mission areas to identify where shared interests open the door to greater levels of cooperation. One way to foster greater cooperation is to transform the Joint Space Operations Center, which provides command and control for our space forces, into a Combined Space Operations Center run in concert with international partners. Such an arrangement will allow our partners to work side-by-side with U.S. commanders, improving our situational awareness while integrating a multilateral approach to day-to-day operations. Networking our space operations center with those of our allies offers a further way to expand collaboration. But even as we increasingly work in partnerships, we will maintain some U.S.-only capabilities for our most sensitive national security missions. </span>__Third, **we need to make our space systems more resilient**, and our combat power less reliant on their full functioning. This will help deny adversaries the benefit from an attack in space__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Just as in the cyber domain, </span>**__denying the benefit of attack in space__** __**can join retaliatory deterrence** **as a disincentive to adversaries**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. To maintain our combat power, we are learning how to operate in a degraded information environment. Training exercises where we disrupt space-based capabilities help our forces become proficient at operating with interference. To improve resiliency, we are developing technology to help us mitigate the loss or degradation of on-orbit systems. For instance, we now have ground, air, and naval-based platforms which can increasingly augment or replace space assets. The U.S. military is one of the few militaries today with the capability to operate in all domains on a global basis, and this ability provides a strategic advantage when space capabilities come under threat. Responsive space capabilities which rapidly launch replacements can also play an important role in reconstituting functionality either during or after an attack. And broader partnerships with commercial firms which enable national security payloads to ride on commercial satellites will further improve our resiliency. Hosting military payloads on commercial spacecraft, as we are already doing with a missile warning sensor, is not only cost-effective, it also enables a more diverse, robust, and distributed set of space systems. Finally, the United States views free access to space as a vital national interest. Consistent with our inherent right of self-defense, we will respond accordingly to attacks on it, at a time and place of our choosingand not necessarily in space. Ultimately, deterrence must impact the decision-making of particular countries and leaders in specific scenarios. </span>**__A multilayered approach to deterrence offers the greatest likelihood of encouraging restraint, and thereby protecting our vital space capabilities from attack__**<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>


Prefer our methodology – deterrence can only function when grounded in cooperation and trust
**__Lupovici ‘8__** (Amir Lupovici, Post-Doctoral Fellow at the Munk Centre for International Studies, University of Toronto, “Why the Cold War Practices of Deterrence are Still Prevalent: Physical Security, Ontological Security and Strategic Discourse,” http://www.cpsa-acsp.ca/papers-2008/Lupovici.pdf )
__Since deterrence can become part of the actors’ identity, it is also involved in the actors’ will to achieve ontological security, securing the actors’ identity and routines__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. As McSweeney explains, </span>__ontological security is “the acquisition of confidence in the routines of daily life—the essential predictability of interaction through which we feel confident in knowing what is going on and that we have the practical skill to go on in this context__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.” These routines become part of the social structure that enables and constrains the actors’ possibilities (McSweeney, 1999: 50-1, 154-5; Wendt, 1999: 131, 229-30). Thus, </span>**__through the emergence of the deterrence norm and the construction of deterrence identities__**__, the **actors create an intersubjective context and intersubjective understandings that in turn affect their interests and routines**. In this context, deterrence strategy and deterrence practices are better understood by the actors, **and** therefore **the continuous avoidance of violence is more easily achieved**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Furthermore, within such a context of deterrence relations, rationality is (re)defined, clarifying the appropriate practices for a rational actor, and this, in turn, reproduces this context and the actors’ identities. Therefore, </span>**__the internalization of deterrence ideas helps__** __to explain how **actors** may **create more cooperative practices and break away from the spiral of hostility that is** forced and maintained by the identities that are **attached to the security dilemma, and which lead to mutual perception of the other as an aggressive enemy**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. As Wendt for example suggests, </span>__in situations where states are restrained from using violence—such as MAD (mutual assured destruction)—states not only avoid violence, but “ironically, may be willing to trust each other enough to take on collective identity”__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In such cases if actors believe that others have no desire to engulf them, then it will be easier to trust them and to identify with their own needs (Wendt, 1999: 358-9). In this respect, </span>**__the norm of deterrence, the trust that is being built between the opponents, and the (mutual) constitution of their role identities may all lead to the creation of long term influences that preserve the practices of deterrence as well as the avoidance of violence__**__. **Since a basic level of trust is needed to attain ontological security**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">, 21 </span>**__the existence of it may further strengthen the practices of deterrence__** __and the actors’ identities of deterrer and deterred actors__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In this respect, I argue that for the reasons mentioned earlier, </span>__the practices of deterrence should be understood as providing both physical and ontological security, thus refuting that there is necessarily tension between them__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Exactly for this reason I argue that Rasmussen’s (2002: 331-2) assertion—according to which MAD was about enhancing ontological over physical security—is only partly correct. Certainly, MAD should be understood as providing ontological security; but it also allowed for physical security, since, compared to previous strategies and doctrines, it was all about decreasing the physical threat of nuclear weapons. Furthermore, </span>__the ability to increase one dimension of security helped to enhance the other, since it strengthened the actors’ identities and created more stable expectations of avoiding violence__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>


Otherwise, miscalculation makes conflicts and escalation to extinction inevitable
**__Mitchell, et al ‘1__** (Gordon M. Mitchell, Assoc. Prof of Communications, University of Pittsburgh, Kevin Ayotte & David Cram Helwich, “Missile Defense: Transatlantic Diplomacy at a Cross-Roads”, ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defense No. 6, July 2001)
**__A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble intentions of 'peace through strength' deterrence__**__, **but this rationale glosses over the tendency that** '… **the presence of space weapons…will result in the increased likelihood of their use'**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.33 This drift toward usage is strengthened by a strategic fact elucidated by Frank Barnaby: when it comes to arming the heavens, 'anti-ballistic missiles and anti-satellite warfare technologies go hand-in-hand'.34 </span>__The interlocking nature of offense and defense in military space technology stems from the inherent 'dual capability' of spaceborne weapon components__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. As Marc Vidricaire, Delegation of Canada to the UN Conference on Disarmament, explains: 'If you want to intercept something in space, you could use the same capability to target something on land'. 35 To the extent that ballistic missile interceptors based in space can knock out enemy missiles in mid-flight, such interceptors can also be used as orbiting 'Death Stars', capable of sending munitions hurtling through the Earth's atmosphere. </span>**__The dizzying speed of space warfare would introduce intense 'use or lose' pressure into strategic calculations, with the spectre of split-second attacks creating incentives to rig__** __orbiting Death Stars with **automated 'hair trigger' devices**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. In theory, this automation would enhance survivability of vulnerable space weapon platforms. However, </span>__by taking the decision to commit violence out of human hands and endowing computers with authority to make war, military planners could sow insidious **seeds of accidental conflict**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. Yale sociologist Charles Perrow has analyzed </span>__'complexly interactive, tightly coupled' industrial systems such as space weapons, which have many sophisticated components that all depend on each other's flawless performance__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. According to Perrow, </span>__this interlocking complexity makes it impossible to foresee all the different ways such systems could fail__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. As Perrow explains, '[t]he odd term "normal accident" is meant to signal that, given the system characteristics, </span>__multiple and unexpected interactions of failures are inevitable'__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.36 </span>__Deployment of space weapons with pre-delegated authority to fire death rays or unleash killer projectiles would likely make war itself inevitable, given the susceptibility of such systems to 'normal accidents'__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. </span>__It is chilling to contemplate the possible effects of a space war__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">. According to retired Lt. Col. Robert M. Bowman, </span>__'**even a tiny projectile reentering from space**__ **__strikes the earth with such high velocity that it can do enormous damage — even more than__** __would be done by **a nuclear weapon**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;"> of the same size!'. 37 In the same Star Wars technology touted as a quintessential tool of peace, defence analyst David Langford sees one of the most destabilizing offensive weapons ever conceived: 'One imagines dead cities of microwave-grilled people'.38</span>**__Given this unique potential for destruction__**__, it is not hard to imagine that **any nation subjected to space weapon attack would retaliate with maximum force, including use of nuclear**, biological, and/or chemical **weapons**. **An accidental war sparked by a computer glitch in space could plunge the world into the most destructive military conflict ever seen**__<span style="font-size: 9.33px;">.</span>