= = 
[[toc]]
=Fisc Disc= 
==1nc== 

Absent fiscal discipline, Moody’s will downgrade US credit rating

Gongloff 11 (Mark Gongloff for the Wall Street Journal, “Moody’s Affirms US AAA Rating,” on August 2, 2011 from [[http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2011/08/02/moodys-affirms-us-aaa-rating/]])

Moody’s just came out and said, great job, USA, you get to keep your AAA rating. For now.¶ This follows Fitch, which earlier said more or less that they were still reviewing the US rating, a process that could take through August. They didn’t promise they’d keep a AAA rating at the end of the process, but called the debt deal “a step in the right direction.”¶ Now the big shoe dangling is S&P, which is really on the hook, having sounded the loudest warning about a downgrade. The size of the debt deal doesn’t seem to hit the $4 trillion mark [[@http://blogs.wsj.com/marketbeat/2011/07/28/sp-rating-chief-more-or-less-sticks-by-4-trillion-deficit-reduction-number/|S&P has said]] would be necessary to keep a AAA rating.¶ My prediction? They’ll issue a similar placeholder statement soonish.¶ Meanwhile, let’s hear what Moody’s has to say:¶ Moody’s Investors Service has confirmed the Aaa government bond rating of the United States following the raising of the statutory debt limit on August 2. The rating outlook is now negative.¶ Moody’s placed the rating on review for possible downgrade on July 13 due to the small but rising probability of a default on the government’s debt obligations because of a failure to increase the debt limit. The initial increase of the debt limit by $900 billion and the commitment to raise it by a further $1.2-1.5 trillion by yearend have virtually eliminated the risk of such a default, prompting the confirmation of the rating at Aaa.¶ In confirming the Aaa rating, Moody’s also recognized that today’s agreement is a first step toward achieving the long-term fiscal consolidation needed to maintain the US government debt metrics within Aaa parameters over the long run. The legislation calls for $917 billion in specific spending cuts over the next decade and established a congressional committee charged with making recommendations for achieving a further $1.5 trillion in deficit reduction over the same time period.¶ In the absence of the committee reaching an agreement, automatic spending cuts of $1.2 trillion would become effective.¶ In assigning a negative outlook to the rating, Moody’s indicated, however, that there would be a risk of downgrade if (1) there is a weakening in fiscal discipline in the coming year; (2) further fiscal consolidation measures are not adopted in 2013; (3) the economic outlook deteriorates significantly; or (4) there is an appreciable rise in the US government’s funding costs over and above what is currently expected.¶ First, while the combination of the congressional committee process and automatic triggers provides a mechanism to induce fiscal discipline, this framework is untested. Attempts at fiscal rules in the past have not always stood the test of time. Therefore, should the new mechanism put in place by the Budget Control Act prove ineffective, this could affect the rating negatively. Moody’s baseline scenario assumes that fiscal discipline is maintained in 2012, despite pressures for fiscal relaxation that often precede general elections and the difficult negotiations that are likely to arise due to the scheduled expiration of the so-called “Bush tax cuts” at the end of that year.¶ Second, further measures will likely be required to ensure that the long-run fiscal trajectory remains compatible with a Aaa rating.¶ Specifically, Moody’s expects to see a stabilization of the federal government’s debt-to-GDP ratio not too far above its projected 2012 level of 73% by the middle of the decade, followed by a decline. Such a pattern would also support a smaller interest burden as a percentage of government revenues than is now projected. Wide political differences that have characterized the recent debt and fiscal debate, if they continue, could prevent effective policymaking around that time. Measures that further reduce long-term deficits would be positive for the rating; a lack of such measures would be negative.¶ Third, recent downward revisions of economic growth rates and the very low growth rate recorded in the first half of 2011 call into question the strength of potential growth in the coming year or two. Continued very low growth would make fiscal consolidation more difficult. As a result, Moody’s will also be monitoring the pace of growth as it relates to the fiscal effort.¶ Finally, the US Treasury’s cost of borrowing has remained low despite the recent political uncertainties surrounding the debt limit and the long-term fiscal outlook. While Moody’s and economic forecasters generally expect interest rates to rise over the next few years, a rise in borrowing costs above and beyond what is now expected would threaten efforts at fiscal consolidation. Such a development would also be negative for the rating should it occur.¶ Moody’s has also confirmed the Aaa ratings of certain US government-guaranteed bonds issued by the governments of Israel and Egypt, which had been on review for possible downgrade as a result of the review of the US government’s bond rating.¶ The implications of this rating action for directly and indirectly related ratings will be reported presently through a separate press release.


Further downgrades cause T-bond flight—that creates a debt crisis which collapses the economy

Rowley 12 Charles Rowley, Professor Emeritus of Economics at George Mason University, 10/15/12, “Renewed threats to U.S. credit rating,” Charles Rowley’s blog, [[http://charlesrowley.wordpress.com/2012/06/15/renewed-threats-to-u-s-credit-rating/]]

A year ago, Standard and Poor’s shocked financial markets by downgrading the credit rating of the United States federal government from AAA to AA+. Because of problems in Europe and as a consequence of the international reserve currency status of the U.S. dollar, the downgrading did not impact adversely on U.S. Treasuries. Indeed, Treasury rates actually declined in the wake of the downgrade as investors moved out of European government bonds into U.S. Treasuries.¶ Now, however, the Wall Street rating agencies are sending out new warnings about imposing further downgrades on U.S. credit rating, at the end of 2012, if the current debt crisis is not resolved by Congressional and Presidential action.¶ S & P threatens a second downgrade – to AA or worse – should the current political stalemate on tax and spending policies continue through the end of 2012. Presumably they do not view the expiration of the Bush tax cuts and the automatic imposition of approved spending cuts as sufficient to resolve the crisis. Surely S & P is correct in that judgment.¶ Moody’s Investors’ Service , Wall Street’s second most powerful rating agency, so far has not downgraded the U.S. from AAA. However, it also expresses serious misgivings about the burgeoning growth of U.S. debt and liabilities and indicates that its negative outlook for America’s top rating has darkened. Moody’s will revisit the rating in the light of the November 2012 elections. Moody’s is especially alarmed by the recent report of the Social Security trustees that indicates a worsening time profile for the Trust in the light of earlier than expected baby boomer retirements and their increasing access to the disabilities fund as unemployment fails to fall.¶ If Moody’s downgrades and if S & P further downgrades U.S. credit ratings, this would move the United States out of the exclusive club of AAA-rated nations, and throw into question the privileged status of U.S. Treasury securities as a safe haven for global investors.¶ Any significant flight from Treasuries would raise Treasury bond rates, with crippling consequences for the economy. A 1-percentage point increase in rates would raise Treasury debt payments by $1 trillion over the next decade, wiping out the benefits of all the budget cuts enacted by Congress last year.¶ The dynamics of such a process may prove to be devastating, moving the U.S. federal government onto a path of sovereign downgrades that accelerates an already worsening fiscal situation. Greece here we come.¶
=Elections= 
Ohio is key to the election and Obama is ahead by a slight lead
Silver, 09/17 (Nate Silver, most qualified person to talk about the elections, "Electoral College May Not Help Obama" on September 17, 2012 from fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/sept-17-electoral-college-may-not-help-obama/)

Mr. Obama’s polling has been somewhat more favorable in Ohio. Really, whenever we’re talking about the relationship between the Electoral College and the popular vote, a lot of what we’re talking about is just Ohio, since it has better than a one-in-three chance of being the tipping-point state.¶ Even so, Mr. Obama’s current projected margin of victory in Ohio is 3.1 percentage points — slightly less than the lead the model gives him in the national popular vote, which was 3.3 percentage points as of Monday’s forecast. In other words, Mr. Obama is not especially likely to win Ohio despite losing the popular vote nationwide; it could happen, but the reverse scenario is at least equally likely.¶ Of course, Ohio is normally just slightly Republican-leaning relative to the country as a whole, so the fact that it’s polling almost exactly at the national average is a positive for Mr. Obama.

More deficit spending would swing the election to Romney
Kraushaar, ’12 (Josh, National Journal writer, 5/14/12, [[http://decoded.nationaljournal.com/2012/05/romneys-targeted-deficit-messa.php]])
If unemployment was the only factor driving this presidential election, Mitt Romney would not be spending much time campaigning in Iowa, where the state's agricultural economy is relatively healthy, and the state boasts a 5.2 percent unemployment rate, the lowest for any battleground state. But spending and debt are big issues in the American heartland, too. And that's why Romney spent time on the trail in Des Moines Tuesday, with a speech decrying excessive government spending. Concern over federal spending is what drove the tea party movement into existence in 2009, and it's an issue that hasn't gone away in 2012. It's what's driving Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's momentum in next month's gubernatorial recall, with a deficit-conscious GOP base showing high levels of enthusiasm. (It's also an effective message with independents: Check out this new ad from Republican New Mexico Senate candidate Heather Wilson that's focused squarely on the debt, deficit and spending -- in a Democratic-leaning state.) When pollsters ask voters what their most important issue is, the catch-all "jobs and the economy" comes first. But the number of voters naming the deficit rose in 2010 and has remained largely constant, and it's an issue that's driving conservatives to the polls. It's also a way for Romney to criticize the president on the economy in states that haven't suffered the brunt of the downturn. New Hampshire is another state with a solid economy, but one receptive to Romney's small-government messaging. Indeed, the RNC held a conference call today, featuring former New Hampshire Gov. John Sununu and former New Hampshire Rep. Jeb Bradley, decrying Obama's record on debt and deficits. Obama may be leading in early Granite State polls, but the Romney campaign is optimistic about their chances there, hoping to take advantage of the state's "live free or die" sentiment. If Obama needs high levels of youth and minority turnout to win a second term, Romney needs a restive base anxious about the fiscal future of the country to show up in big numbers. That's the ticket to a Romney victory in states like Iowa, New Hampshire, and Virginia -- where the economy is pretty good but voter dissatisfaction still runs high.

Ohio is key
Silver, 09/17 (Nate Silver, most qualified person to talk about the elections, "Electoral College May Not Help Obama" on September 17, 2012 from fivethirtyeight.blogs.nytimes.com/2012/09/18/sept-17-electoral-college-may-not-help-obama/)
But there are other states in which Mr. Obama seems to be underperforming slightly. In 2008, for instance, Mr. Obama won Colorado by a wider margin than he did Ohio. This year, however, his projected margin of victory in Colorado is 2.3 percentage points, slightly less than in Ohio — and also slightly less than his margin in the national popular vote. Similarly, Mr. Obama’s projected margin of victory in Virginia right now is 1.3 percentage points.¶ If you total up the electoral votes from the states where Mr. Obama is currently running better than he is in Ohio, as according to our forecasts, they equal 263 electoral votes — not quite enough for him to win.¶ To the extent that Mr. Obama has an advantage, it’s that he has a lot of options for how to get those remaining electoral votes, including any one of Virginia, Colorado, Ohio and Florida (although the 263 total includes a couple of states, like Wisconsin and Iowa, where Mr. Obama’s position is not particularly safe).¶ But what would really signal strength for Mr. Obama is if Ohio were his backup plan. For instance, if he led by four or five points in Colorado right now, rather than two or three, then he’d have a winning map without Ohio, meaning that Ohio would represent almost pure electoral upside for him. But we’re not seeing polls in Colorado, or Virginia, that give him a lead like that on a consistent basis. Right now, Ohio is his “Plan A.”¶ Still, it would be possible to overrate the importance of this. In the chart below, I’ve listed the probability of each candidate winning the Electoral College conditional upon achieving a particular result in the popular vote, as based on the 25,001 simulations that the model ran on Monday. (chart omitted) For instance, if Mr. Obama won the popular vote by between 0.001 and 0.5 percentage points over Mr. Romney, the simulations find that he’d have a 55 percent chance of winning the Electoral College also. If he won the popular vote by between half a percentage point and one point, he’d win the Electoral College about three-quarters of the time.

Israel will hold off strikes now
Foster, ’12 (Daniel, National Review, 3/8/12, [[http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/292970/obama-casually-offers-israel-goodies-bomb-iran-iafteri-election-daniel-foster|http://www.nationalreview.com/corner/292970/obama-casually-offers-israel-goodies-bomb-iran-iafteri-election-daniel-foster#]])
The president, who in a recent press conference admonished Republicans for their “casual” discussion of possible war with Iran, has apparently offered Israel sweeteners for delaying any strike against Tehran’s nuclear facilities until after the election. From The New York Post: WASHINGTON — The US offered to give Israel advanced weaponry — including bunker-busting bombs and refueling planes — in exchange for Israel’s agreement not to attack Iranian nuclear sites, Israeli newspaper Maariv reported Thursday. President Obama reportedly made the offer during Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s visit to Washington this week. Under the proposed deal, Israel would not attack Iran until 2013, after US elections in November this year. The newspaper cited unnamed Western diplomatic and intelligence sources.

Obama’s key
Hurst, ’12 (Stephen, AP, 4/18/12, [[http://www.breitbart.com/Big-Peace/2012/04/18/Romneys-foreign-policy-may-mean-hardball-is-back]])
Even so, Romney will campaign, Williamson said, as the man who can return the United States to a country that ensures "peace through strength rather than just managing the gradual decline of our military strength." Romney is particularly harsh on Obama's handling of Iran and concerns it may be building a nuclear weapon. The president is clearly trying to head off a threatened Israeli attack on Iranian nuclear installations. While Obama has not ruled out a U.S. attack, he has not been as directly threatening as Romney, who positions himself much closer to Israel and hardline Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. In one Republican debate, Romney said: "If we re-elect Barack Obama, Iran will have a nuclear weapon. And if we elect Mitt Romney, if you elect me as the next president, they will not have a nuclear weapon."

Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.
Chossudovsky 6. (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)
The Bush Administration has embarked upon a military adventure which threatens the future of humanity. This is not an overstatement. If aerial bombardments were to be launched against Iran, they would trigger a ground war and the escalation of the conflict to a much broader region. Even in the case of aerial and missile attacks using conventional warheads, the bombings would unleash a "Chernobyl type" nuclear nightmare resulting from the spread of nuclear radiation following the destruction of Iran's nuclear energy facilities. Throughout history, the structure of military alliances has played a crucial role in triggering major military conflicts. In contrast to the situation prevailing prior to the 2003 invasion of Iraq, America's ongoing military adventure is now firmly supported by the Franco-German alliance. Moreover, Israel is slated to play a direct role in this military operation. NATO is firmly aligned with the Anglo-American-Israeli military axis, which also includes Australia and Canada. In 2005, NATO signed a military cooperation agreement with Israel, and Israel has a longstanding bilateral military agreement with Turkey. Iran has observer status in The Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and is slated to become a full member of SCO. China and Russia have far-reaching military cooperation agreements with Iran. China and Russia are firmly opposed to a US-led military operation in the diplomatic arena. While the US sponsored military plan threatens Russian and Chinese interests in Central Asia and the Caspian sea basin, it is unlikely that they would intervene militarily on the side of Iran or Syria. The planned attack on Iran must be understood in relation to the existing active war theaters in the Middle East, namely Afghanistan, Iraq and Lebanon-Palestine. The conflict could easily spread from the Middle East to the Caspian sea basin. It could also involve the participation of Azerbaijan and Georgia, where US troops are stationed. Military action against Iran and Syria would directly involve Israel's participation, which in turn would trigger a broader war throughout the Middle East, not to mention the further implosion in the Palestinian occupied territories. Turkey is closely associated with the proposed aerial attacks. If the US-UK-Israeli war plans were to proceed, the broader Middle East- Central Asian region would flare up, from the Eastern Mediterranean to the Afghan-Chinese border. At present, there are three distinct war theaters: Afghanistan, Iraq and Palestine-Lebanon. An attack directed against Iran would serve to integrate these war theaters transforming the broader Middle East Central Asian region into an integrated war zone.