[[toc]]
=States CP= 
==1NC Shells== 
===1NC Generic=== 
Text: The fifty states and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should substantially increase ___

States should are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding
Puentes ’11 [2011, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @ http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]
III. A New State Approach An emphasis on fiscal responsibility does not mean states
AND
Housing coordinates and oversees 14 departments and several economic development programs and commissions.

The federal government is plagued with pork-barrel politics and bureaucratic bungling.
Edwards ’11 [Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.]
In a recent television ad for her network, MSNBC host Rachel Maddow stands below
AND
providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public. They're ready.

===1NC Stimulus Solvency=== 
Amending for deficit spending solves keynesianism
Attewell 9 (Steven, July 30, 50 State Keynesianism – Part 2, http://realignmentproject.wordpress.com/2009/07/30/50-state-keynesianism-part-2/)
One of the things that’s often puzzled me about the progressive movement is our lack
AND
would be New York and California, given their size and political weight.

===1NC v. Disabilities=== 
Text - The fifty states and all of the relevant territories should provide all necessary funding for Universal Design transportation infrastructure and allocate all the necessary funding to ensure compliance with the American Disabilities Act and conduct a press conference afterwards to stimulate national awareness. The 50 states in the United States and all relevant territories should amend their constitutions to allow for deficit spending.

State implementation of Universal Design is key to tailoring it to local needs
Percy, ‘01
[Stephen Percy, Ph.D., Indiana University A.B., Hamilton College, Political Science Professor at the University of Milwaukee, “Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation”, 2001, National Library of Canada <http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true>]
Questions about policy coordination invariably raise issues about implementing disability policies from an intergovernmental,
AND
continue to be the focus of policy debates and plans for system reform.

===1NC v. HSR=== 
The fifty states and all relevant sub-national authorities should establish multi-state compacts related to corridors and hub networks and substantially increase investment in an express train infrastructure. The 50 states in the United States and all relevant territories should amend their constitutions to allow for deficit spending.

States solve best. They can coordinate and, once in charge, would improve HSR efficiency.
Chicago Tribune ‘1
(“Let states drive high-speed train,” Dec 24, http://articles.chicagotribune.com/2001-12-24/news/0112240192_1_high-speed-rail-investment-high-speed-train-high-speed-rail)
Amtrak--the money-losing operation that poses as a national passenger railroad in
AND
sense before any money is invested. High-speed train service in the

===1NC v. NIB=== 
Text: The fifty states of the United States and all relevant territories including Washington D.C. should capitalize all necessary banks to substantially increase transportation infrastructure investment. The 50 states in the United States and all relevant territories should amend their constitutions to allow for deficit spending.

Counterplan solves – SIB’s are comparatively more efficient than NIB’s – all their solvency deficits are descriptive of current SIB’s
Puentes 11 [Robert, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy”, 2011, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf
Create new public/private institutions. To finance the kind of major investments necessary
AND
to do more to assist states and metro areas in this way.28

The federal government is plagued with pork-barrel politics and bureaucratic bungling.
Edwards ’11 [Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.]
In a recent television ad for her network, MSNBC host Rachel Maddow stands below
AND
providing more innovative and less costly infrastructure to the public. They're ready.
===1NC v. Alaska Ports=== 
The United States Federal government should devolve authority over all deepsea ports to the states. Alaska should substantially increase its investment in its deepwater ports

States should are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding
Puentes ’11 [2011, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]]
III. A New State Approach An emphasis on fiscal responsibility does not mean states
AND
Housing coordinates and oversees 14 departments and several economic development programs and commissions.

===1NC v. Inland Waterways=== 

The United States Federal Government should devolve authority over inland waterway infrastructure to the 50 states. The United States Federal Government should remove all restrictions on inland waterway infrastructure. The 50 states should invest in its inland waterway infrastructure modernization projects in the United States

States solve
Heim and Tedesco 9—Heads of General Dynamics NASSCO, a major ship design, construction, and repair company located in San Diego [Aimee and Matt, “A Shipbuilder’s Assessment of America’s Marine Highways”, July 30, 2009, http://www.nassco.com/pdfs/Shipbuilder-Assessment-American-Marine-Highway-NASSCO.pdf
State & Local Involvement Direct investment in shipyards and tax incentives to facilitate the capital
AND
advocating for labor rates separate from labor rates applied to international shipping containers.
=Investment= 
==FDI CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should request foreign direct investment in a United States transportation infrastructure and introduce necessary pro-investment policies including necessary fiscal adjustments, tax reductions, and discounted ranks on bank loans in order to encourage foreign direct investment in United States transportation infrastructure

CP solves the aff—China will invest in the aff and solves the economy
Jiewei, ’11 [10/27/11, Lou Jiewei is a chairman of China Investment Corporation, “China can help west build economic growth” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e3c5aacc-18ed-11e1-92d8-00144feabdc0.html#ixzz26DpNCj3o]
Central to international efforts towards promoting strong and balanced growth is the need to generate
AND
offers the chance of a “win-win” solution for all.

==P3’s CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should provide investment its merchant marine exclusively to areas in
AND
infrastructure necessary for a merchant marine and provide necessary technical assistance for implementation.


CP solves the aff—supports more local development
Puentes, ‘10 – [8/23/10, Robert Puentes, Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institute, “New Partnerships for Accelerating Infrastructure Investments,” http://www.brookings.edu/research/testimony/2010/08/23-los-angeles-puentes]

So as Congress continues to develop its plans for the reauthorization of the nation’s surface
AND
, more direct reporting to federal agencies, and reduced bureaucracy.[7]

===1NC Accountability NB=== 
The net benefit is infrastructure accountability—federal infrastructure projects fail—cost overruns and survival of the un-fittest
De Rugy and Mitchell, ’11 [September 2011, Veronique de Rugy is a Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, Ph.D. in Economics, and Matthew Mitchell is a Senior Research Fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, Ph.D. in Economics from George Mason University, “Would More Infrastructure Spending Stimulate the Economy?,” Mercatus Center Working Paper Number 11-36, http://mercatus.org/sites/default/files/publication/infrastructure_deRugy_WP_9-12-11.pdf,]
Cost overruns are the rule rather than the exception: The most comprehensive study of
AND
. Unfortunately, modern-day Keynesians appear not to have paid heed.

Public investment is manipulated by project managers who cook the data to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns
Flyvbjerg, ‘10 – [Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford
AND
3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online]

This situation may need some explication, because it may sound to many like an
AND
signiﬁcant social and environmental impacts, as is common with major infrastructure projects.

Data cooking creates economic disasters – the worst projects are approved, and necessary infrastructure loses out – this turns the case
Flyvbjerg, ‘10 – [Bent, Professor of Major Programme Management at Oxford
AND
3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online]

In sum, the UK study shows that strong interests and strong incentives exist at
AND
viability. They have been designed like that, as disasters waiting to happen
=Case Specific= 
==Climate PIC== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its hazard mitigation and emergency preparedness investment in transportation infrastructure in the United States.

CP solves the whole aff and avoids politics—the word “climate” is politically toxic—the CP is a politically feasible way to solve the aff and the 2AC’s link turns about infrastructure resilience to weather—star this card
Lowy, ’11/22 [11/22/12, Joan Lowy, “Climate Change Challenges Transportation System In The U.S.”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/11/22/climate-change-transportation_n_2174703.html]
WASHINGTON (AP) — Wild weather is taking a toll on roads, airports
AND
call inconvenient sewer overflow," Winkelman said. "It makes it real."
==Polar Icebreaker PIC== 
===1NC Shell=== 
CP is competitive—the word “Icebreaker” includes oceangoing and lake and river icebreakers
Soviet Encyclopedia, ’79 [The Great Soviet Encyclopedia 3rd Edition, 1979, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/The%20Great%20Soviet%20Encyclopedia%203rd%20Edition%20(1970-1979)%20%C2%A9%202010]
Icebreaker
a vessel designed to sail through ice to maintain navigation in bodies of water that
AND
. Icebreakers are also divided into classes (groups) according to power.

The word “Polar Icebreaker” only includes a subset of ships that only go the arctic—they are technically different
McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, ’03 [McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific & Technical Terms, 6E, Copyright © 2003]
polar-class icebreaker [¦pō·lər ‚klas ′īs‚brāk·ər]
(naval architecture)
AND
It serves in the Arctic or the Antarctic as a platform for polar and ocean science and research.

===2NC AT Perm do the CP=== 
This distinction is supported in their literature—non-domestic icebreakers are funding through a different program
Allen, 1AC CARD, ‘09 - Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security Thad, “OVERSIGHT OF THE U.S. COAST GUARD,” COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION UNITED STATES SENATE, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg53264/html/CHRG-111shrg53264.htm

Mr. Caldwell. Well, I think they're making some progress in some areas
AND
the biggest source of where there'll be a big demand for additional resources.
==Indigenous Lands PIC== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in Indigenous Lands

The term Indian Country is incorrect and racist
Starr, 07, author for Zmagazine,
[Scott Starr, “‘Indian Country’- Beyond the ‘Green Zone’ In Iraq”’ Zmagazine, http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/14649]
Most people have heard the "safe" area in Baghdad where Americans and their
AND
of arrogance, hubris, and self imposed paternalism, exceptionalism and imperialism.
=Advantage= 
==Air Fuels CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States Federal Government should permit the United States Air Force to purchase fuel without meeting the requirements of the energy independence and security act.

THE COUNTERPLAN SOLVES AIR POWER
WAGNER 5-1-2008
(Breanne, Writer for the National Defense Industrial Association, National Defense Magazine)
Makers of synthetic fuel are eager to offer their wares to the military as a
AND
greater interest in alternative energy, but many caution against moving too quickly.
==ATS Reform CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should initiate necessary reforms to the Antarctic Treaty System as per our Triggs evidence.

The following reforms solve the whole aff
Triggs, ‘1AC Author, ‘11 – Professor of Law @ Sydney
Gillian, “The Antarctic Treaty System: A Model of Legal Creativity and Cooperation,” http://www.atsummit50.org/media/book-8.pdf
New thinking and initiatives are required to strengthen the system. The ATS is,
AND
would ensure its primary objectives while leaving intact their respective views on sovereignty.

==Building Codes CP== 

===1NC Shell=== 
The state governments should implement and enforce energy efficiency building codes modeled on California’s building codes.

Efficient building codes solve better – gains in transportation efficiency are inevitable
Joan Indiana Rigdon – Nov 2008, Grad of UC Berkeley journalism school, former writer for Wall Street Journal, “Oil: The Never-Ending Crisis,” Washington Lawyer, http://www.dcbar.org/for_lawyers/resources/publications/washington_lawyer/november_2008/oil_crisis.cfm
Unsexy Building Codes Much of the public debate about energy and greenhouse gas emissions is
AND
Harry running out to put a windmill on their roof,” he says.

Changing building codes is key – locks in efficiency and reduces oil dependence
US Department of Energy, 18 May 2011, “Why Building Energy Codes?” US DOE, http://www.energycodes.gov/why_codes/
Buildings fundamentally have an impact on people's lives, economic well-being, and
AND
improvements, and collecting and disseminating information regarding new technologies and best practices.

==Clean Tech CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States Federal Government should create a National Institutes of Energy modeled on the National Institutes of Health and provide $15 billion per year to clean energy research and development projects.

CP results in massive clean tech investment
Freed, ’09 [September 2009, Josh Freed is the vice president of the third way clean energy program, “Jumpstarting a Clean Energy Revolution with a National Institutes of Energy”, [[http://thebreakthrough.org/blog/Jumpstarting_Clean_Energy_Sept_09.pdf]]]
When the United States faces a significant challenge and decides it is critical to act
AND
funding energy experts believe is necessary to develop clean, affordable energy technologies.
==Code of Conduct CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should offer a Code of Conduct to all space-faring nations that prohibits harmful interference against man-made space objects with enforcement and verification measures

Code of conduct solves weaponization –
Krepon, Hitchens, and Katz-Hyman, ’11 [February 2011, Michael
AND
20 in “Towards a Theory of Spacepower: Selected Essays”, SM]
We view a code of conduct for responsible spacefaring nations as a necessary complement to
AND
the foundation stone of norm setting and rules of the road in space. 
==Cuban Embargo CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Text: The United States Federal Government should repeal its trade embargo on the Republic of Cuba.


Repeal Cuban embargo is the key internal link to trade
Johson et. Al 10 (Andy, director of the national security program, Kyle Spector, policy advisor for the National Security Program, Kristina Lilac, works for the national security program, Third Way Publications, September 16, 2010, http://content.thirdway.org/publications/326/Third_Way_Memo_-_End_the_Embargo_of_Cuba.pdf, )
The US has had normal trade relations with many countries just as problematic, if
AND
in Cuba and create 6,000 new jobs in the US.10

==Deficit Reduction CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should implement the Galston-MacGuineas deficit reduction plan as per our Galston and MacGuineas evidence. CP restores the perception of fiscal discipline and is a sufficient reduction, but credibility is key—anything more than 60% would be insufficient
Galston and MacGuineas, ‘10 [9/30/10, Bill Galston is Ezra Zilkha Chair in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution. Maya MacGuineas is the Director of the Fiscal Policy Program at the New America Foundation., “The Future is Now: A Balanced Plan to Stabilize Public Debt and Promote Economic Growth”]
We believe it is prudent to bring the debt back down to 60% of
AND
capital to pass but is ultimately insufficient to reassure domestic and international lenders.

Any version of the permutation is severance—CP freezes transportation funding
Galston and MacGuineas, ‘10 [9/30/10, Bill Galston is Ezra Zilkha Chair in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution. Maya MacGuineas is the Director of the Fiscal Policy Program at the New America Foundation., “The Future is Now: A Balanced Plan to Stabilize Public Debt and Promote Economic Growth”]
It is generally believed that because future growth in the budget will come from the
AND
that spending growth be capped at inflation for the remainder of the decade.

===2NC Permutation=== 
Priorities DA—showing that deficit reduction isn’t the primary authority by simultaneously increasing spending sends the perception that in times of fiscal duress that the USFG won’t focus on repaying investors first—freaks them out
De Rugy, ’11 [3/30/11, Veronique de Rugy is a Senior Research Fellow for Mercatus, Testimony in front of the House Committee on Ways and Means, “Debt and Deficits: The Symptoms, Not the Disease”, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/highway%20infrastructure%20kahn%20levinson/02_highway_infrastructure_kahn_levinson_brief]
Another key signaling device for international investors is how a government behaves under financial duress
AND
comes, the US will prioritize its spending and will pay bondholders first.

60% key
a. Goldilocks—anything more collapses the economy, anything less is insufficient
CRFB, ’12 [March 2012, Center for Responsible Federal Budget, “Stabilize the Debt”, http://crfb.org/stabilizethedebt/]
The debt of the United States is rising to unprecedented – and unsustainable – levels
AND
" and "Savings Relative to Current Policy" on the FAQ page.

b. Sustainability—key limit to keep debt manageable
Chowdhury and Islam, ’10 [Anis Chowdhury and Iyanatul Islam, The University of Western Sydney, Australia , 9 November 2010, “Is there an optimal debt-to-GDP ratio?” http://www.voxeu.org/debates/commentaries/there-optimal-debt-gdp-ratio]
In current debates on fiscal consolidation, proposed prudential limits on public debt-to
AND
2) meeting targets for debt sustainability in the long run.[5]

Debt crisis is likely—resiliency is declining and Europe proves that we are on the brink—recent events have given us a break, but maintaining fiscal discipline now is key
Masters, ’12 [3/2/12, Jonathan Masters, Online Editor/Writer, “U.S. Deficits and the National Debt”, http://www.cfr.org/united-states/us-deficits-national-debt/p27400]
At some point in the not-too-distant future, analysts say,
AND
sustainability of an active U.S. foreign policy," he says.


==EUCOM CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The Joint Chiefs of Staff should revise the Unified Command Plan to establish EUCOM as the lead for combatant command Arctic operations.

Consolidating US Arctic military policy under EUCOM signals US resolve and results in regional cooperation—solves the Arctic advantage
Carafano et al, ’11 [3/28/2011, James Jay Carafano, Ph.D., is Deputy Director of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies and Director of the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Davis Institute; Ariel Cohen, Ph.D., is Senior Research Fellow in Russian and Eurasian Studies and International Energy Policy in the Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies; and Sally McNamara is Senior Policy Analyst in European Affairs in the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom, a division of the Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Richard Weitz, Ph.D., is Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political–Military Analysis at Hudson Institute, “EUCOM Should Lead U.S. Combatant Commands in Defense of National Interests in the Arctic”, http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2011/03/eucom-should-lead-us-combatant-commands-in-defense-of-national-interests-in-the-arctic]
The May 2010 National Security Strategy states that: The United States is an Arctic
AND
.S. economic competitiveness and sovereignty are safeguarded throughout the 21st century.
==Intelligence Sharing CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
United States Federal Government should finance greater cooperation and intelligence sharing between national, state, and local law enforcement and intelligence agencies for the prevention of terrorist attacks in the United States.
Information sharing solves bioterror
ISE 2009
(Information Sharing Environment, “Information Sharing with State, Local, and Tribal Entities,” March 3, http://www.ise.gov/pages/partner-slt.html)
As our Nation's first "preventers and responders," State, local, and
AND
for dissemination to State, local, tribal, and private sector partners.

==ITS CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should its increase its intelligent transportation systems communications infrastructure.

ITS is key to upgrading our infrastructure, solves the 2nd advantage
Pincus, ‘11 [September 2011, Marcia Pincus is from the ITS Joint Program Office Research and Innovative Technology Administration U.S. Department of Transportation Department of Transportation, Final Report, “Intelligent Transportation Systems Benefits, Costs, Deployment, and Lessons Learned Desk Reference: 2011 Update”,http://www.benefitcost.its.dot.gov/its/benecost.nsf/files/BCLLDepl2011Update/$File/Ben_Cost_Less_Depl_2011%20Update.pdf]
A variety of sensors deployed on the transportation infrastructure can help provide an early warning
AND
techniques such as reversible flow lanes are often used for evacuation during emergencies.

==Jackson Vanik CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States Federal Government should normalize trade relations with the Russian Federation including repealing the Jackson Vanik amendment.

CP solves relations
Gvosdev, 2/10 on the faculty of the U.S. Naval War College (Nikolas, “The Realist Prism: Resetting the U.S.-Russia Reset,” 2/10/2012, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/11441/the-realist-prism-resetting-the-u-s-russia-reset)
After a period of healthier ties following the much-heralded reset, U.
AND
end up being a fatal blow to the whole idea of the reset.

==Japan Alliance CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government, in coordination with Japan, should adopt a basing strategy that focuses on collocating forces and consolidating bases with Japanese Self Defense Forces and Japanese civilian facilities and substantially increase its public diplomacy efforts in Japan. The United States federal government should close the Marine Corps Air Station Futenma and cancel any plans for relocating it.

A new basing strategy solves better than relocation to Guam—appeases public concerns
Smith, ’12 [April 2012, Sheila A. Smith, Senior Fellow for Japan Studies, “A Strategy for the U.S.-Japan Alliance”, http://www.cfr.org/japan/strategy-us-japan-alliance/p28010]

A future U.S.-Japan alliance strategy cannot stop at force posture adjustments.
AND
such as health care and social security.
==Keystone XL CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should authorize the construction of the Keystone XL pipeline.
Keystone XL solves US foreign oil dependence
Petty in 12 <Kathleen. “Dewhurst says Keystone XL Pipeline needed to decrease America's foreign oil dependency” February 24, 2012. http://www.mywesttexas.com/top_stories/article_fe7651e5-9398-5373-9532-7290e2f36587.html>//CS
Passing legislation that will allow to develop the Keystone XL pipeline is instrumental in weaning
AND
war on jobs. And, the American people have paid the price."

==Microbubbles CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The 50 states should substantially increase investment in transportation infrastructure. The 50 states should fully fund a program to cover 4.8% of the surface of the Earth’s oceans in a monolayer of 0.1 μm diameter latex particles, either hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water.


Solves warming, only costs $2 billion, and avoids all solvency deficits associated with traditional ocean albedo modifications.

Morgan 11 [10/8/11, John, PhD in physical chemistry, runs R&D programmes at a Sydney startup company, research experience in chemical engineering in the US and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's national science agency, “Low intensity geoengineering – microbubbles and microspheres,” [[http://bravenewclimate.com/2011/10/08/low-intensity-geoengineering-microbubbles-and-microspheres/]]]
Is there another way to look at this? The Achilles heel of the hydrosol
AND
reefs as envisaged by Seitz for the microbubble concept, are also possible.
==Nanotech CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should increase the budget for the National Nanotechnology Coordinating Office by $2 million and instruct the National Nanotechnology Initiative to increase its investment in manufacturing of nanomaterials by 100 percent over the next five years.

CP solves US nanotechnology development
Steenhuysen, ’10 [Julie Steenhuysen- Reuters- Mar 25, 2010, U.S. lead in nanotech eroding, report finds, http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE62O48920100325?pageNumber=2 ]
The United States urgently needs to invest more in nanotechnology if it is to maintain
AND
investment in manufacturing of nanomaterials by 100 percent over the next five years.
==Russia Science Cooperation CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should increase cooperation abroad with universities and governments including the Russian Federation and reform its science diplomacy endeavors by developing a coordinated public diplomacy strategy, creating more appropriate, specialized collaborations, and focusing on applying developed technology.

Counterplan solves science diplomacy
D’ARCY AND LEVI 2005 (Michael, Science and Technology Fellow at the Brookings Institution, Michael, Nonresident Science Fellow, “Untapped Potential: US Science and Technology Cooperation with the Islamic World”, [[http://www.brookings.edu/papers/2005/04islamicworld_levi.aspx]], April)
Many would be surprised to learn that the United States already engages this scientific capacity
AND
would also be invaluable, serving as common foundations of a comprehensive strategy.

==Seabasing CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States Federal Government should develop and implement a mobile Sea Basing naval capability aimed at ensuring adequate United States forward deployment and power projection capabilities.

Sea basing solves hegemony – Allows for rapid forward deployment and global deterrence
Michael Perry, 2009, U.S. navy commander, “ Importance of Seabasing to Land Power Generation”, U.S. Army War College, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA508337&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf
Seabasing supports numerous aspects of America’s National Security, Defense and Military Strategies. This
AND
of the National Security, Defense and Military Strategies of the United States.
==Soft Power CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should establish the USA-World trust, institute reforms to increase interagency cooperation and streamlining for public diplomacy, establish interagency commands for reconstruction and development and appoint a Deputy National Security Advisor for Outreach.


The counterplan solves soft power
Lord, ‘08 (Kristin, Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies Program and Saban Center’s Project on U.S. Relations with the Islamic World at the Brookings Institution, former Associate Dean for Strategy, Research, and External Relations at The George Washington University’s Elliott School of International Affairs, “Voices of America : U.S. Public Diplomacy for the 21st Century,” November, http://www.brookings.edu/reports/2008/~/media/Files/rc/reports/2008/11_public_diplomacy_lord/11_public_diplomacy_lord.pdf)
In hundreds of conversations with experts and practitioners inside and outside government, the only
AND
lethal force or presenting the official position of the United States government overseas.
==Sulfate Aerosols CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Text: The United States federal government should deploy sulphate aerosols in the stratosphere in sufficient quantities to stabilize average global temperature at safe levels.

Solves warming
Victor et al, ‘9 (David G. Victor, M. Granger
AND
., “The Geoengineering Option”, Foreign Affairs, March/April 2009)
Today, the term "geoengineering" refers to a variety of strategies designed to
AND
one percent (or less) of the cost of dramatically cutting emissions.

===2NC Solvency Run=== 
And, aerosols can decrease the impact of CO2 to pre-industrial levels
Lenton and Vaughan, ‘9 (T. M. Lenton, School of Environmental Sciences, University of East Anglia, N. E. Vaughan, Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, January 28, “The radiative forcing potential of dierent climate geoengineering options”, Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics (ACP) Journal)
Climate geoengineering is best considered as a potential complement to the mitigation of CO2 emissions
AND
options, and provide a common framework for the evaluation of new proposals.


===2NC AT No Tech=== 
The technology exists
Rasch et al, ‘8 (Philip J. Rasch, National Center for
AND
stratospheric sulphate aerosols”, Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, August 29)
The effects of high-altitude aircraft on the upper troposphere and lower stratosphere have
AND
mass among the particles, and (iii) ignore coagulation following emission.
==X-51 CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States Federal Government should deploy the X-51 WaveRider missile.
Solves the case- X-51 provides prompt global strike capabilities
Popular Mechanics 07
(Hypersonic Cruise Missile: America's New Global Strike Weapon, jan, http://www.popularmechanics.com/technology/military_law/4203874.html?page=2)

Some officials in the Defense Department want to answer concerns about the Tridents with more
AND
confidence in it working," the Air Force's Mark J. Lewis says.

That solves our failing deterrent.
Whitlock 4/8 (Craig, Washington Post staff writer, [http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/04/07/AR2010040704920.html] AD: 6/28/10)JM
"Capabilities like an adaptive missile defense shield, conventional warheads with worldwide reach and
AND
bombers likewise can take many hours to fly into position for a strike.

===2NC Solvency Run=== 
PGS key to rapid deployment and decreased reliance on our nuclear arsenal.
Times of India 4/2 (The Times of India, newspaper with largest circulation among all English-language newspapers in the world, [http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/world/us/In-the-works-A-missile-to-hit-anywhere-in-1-hr/articleshow/5857401.cms] AD: 6/28/10)JM
WASHINGTON: Haunted by the memory of a lost opportunity in 1998 to kill Osama
AND
; or destroying an Iranian nuclear site all without crossing the nuclear threshold.

The PGS system’s speed increases rapid deployment capabilities and trades off with nukes.
Grossman 6 (Elaine, reporter with Global Security Newswire, July 1, [http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090701_5635.php] AD: 6/28/10)JM
Under the conventional prompt global strike mission
AND "
We've got to have a way to address those [urgent targets] credibly for our deterrent postures [to work]."

===2NC AT No Fly Zones=== 
US can still use planes and missiles in no-fly zones or they’ll ignore it
People’s Daily, ‘1 (February 27, “US, British Warplanes Attack More Sites in ‘No-fly’ Zones” lexis)
US and British warplanes Wednesday attacked civilian targets in five provinces in the two "
AND
civilian targets, but Washington and London said they only hit military installations.

=Other= 
==Asian Counteradvocacy== 
===1NC Shell=== 
WE ADVOCATE A DECONSTRUCTION OF THE RESOLUTION AND THE UNITED STATES FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BY AFFIRMING THE METAPHOR OF THE RESOLUTION THROUGH THE ESSENCE OF THE ASIAN AMERICAN, “MODEL MINORITY” AND “NEO-RACIST” PERSPECTIVES.

THE COUNTER ADVOCACY USES THE UNIQUE EXPERIENCE OF THE ASIAN IMMIGRANT AND SOLVES THEIR OFFENSE BETTER:

FIRST NOTE: RACISM HAS MOVED BEYOND BIOLOGICAL HEREDITY TO FORM A NEO RACISM ROOTED WITHIN CULTURAL BOUNDARIES, A DIFFERENTIALIST RACISM AND IMMIGRATION IS THE KEY.

CHALLENGING AND RECOGNIZING THIS FORM OF RACISM IS KEY TO A) SPURRING MORE EFFECTIVE MOVEMENTS AGAINST RACE AND B) TACKLING THE INSTITUTIONAL DISCRIMINATION OF THE SOUTHEAST ASIAN.

BALIBAR teaches philosophy @ the University of Paris 2k5
Etienne-; RACE, NATION, CLASS: Ambiguous identities; published 1988 reprinted 1992,1993,1995,1996,1998,2000,2002,2005; p. 20-21.
We can now turn our attention to ‘neo-racism’. What seems
AND
is what P.A. Taguieff has rightly called a differentialist racism.

AND WE MUST COUNTER RACISM AGAINST THE ASIAN POPULATION FIRST AS A PRIOR METHOD

THE FIRST NET BENEFIT IS “COLLATORAL DAMAGE” THE FAILURE TO FOCUS ON SOUTHEAST ASIANS IN RACIAL DISCSOURSE INDEPENDENTLY TURNS SOUTHEAST ASIANS INTO DISCURSIVE “COLLATERAL DAMAGE”
TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000
Eric-; COLLATERAL DAMAGE: Southeast Asian Poverty in the United States; SOCIAL TEXT 62; Vol. 18, No. 1, Spring; p.58-59.
Following my discussion of the formation of an immigrant culture of poverty, I
AND
fully exposed-reveals that there is no such thing as the unintended.

B) THE SECOND NET BENEFIT IS THE MYTH OF THE MODEL MINORITY

COUNTERING THE DISCRIMINATION AGAINST THE ASIAN AMERICAN IS A PRE-REQUISITE TO ANY SOLVENCY: THE MYTH OF THE MODEL MINORITY

THRUPKAEW Prospect Senior Correspondent 2k2
Noy-; The Myth of the Model Minority; THE AMERICAN PROSPECT; April 7;
http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority
The model-minority myth has persisted in large part because political conservatives are so
AND
, so people don't know the specific needs and contributions of our communities."

===2NC Overview=== 
Second the IMPACT of policing of NATIONS of colored bodies has greater implications. Internal conditions of RAW RACIAL DOMINATION and white supremacy CONDITIONED the state’s conduct into the MASS KILLINGS. The bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki were DIRECTLY CONDITIONED by racist dehumanization of Asian peoples ON THE DOMESTIC FRONT.

Gott ’88, Gill, Ph.D., UC-Berkeley; Prof, Law and Int’l Studies, DePaul U, Dec 1988 (“A Tale of New Precedents: Japanese American Interment as Foreign Affairs Law,” Boston College Law Review, p. 202)
Ironically, of course, the supposed anarchy of the "external" was set
AND
, a product of domestic race "relations" in the United States.
hopefully I’m wrong, but as these recent incidents show, racial tensions seem to be on the rise, not on the decline.

THE COUNTER-ADVOCACY IS THE ONLY WAY TO BREAK DOWN THE STRUCTURES OF WHITE SUPREMACY AS THEY EXIST TODAY.

Racism and Racial discrimination HIDES under the ILLUSION of the progression to a COLOR-BLIND society. The success of ASIANS are the warrant that racial equality has been achieved. The POLICING of bodies occurs through this WHITEWASHING of the historical legacies of systemic racism. Asian-Americans will CONTINUE to be the SCAPE-GOATS.

Le ’08, C.N., 4/25/08 (“Racial Tensions and Living in a Colorblind Society,” Asian-Nation, http://www.asian-nation.org/headlines/2008/04/racial-tensions-and-living-in-a-colorblind-society/)
It would be great if I could just focus on discussing the positive aspects of
AND
racial tensions seem to be on the rise, not on the decline.

===2NC AT Sexton=== 
Expanding the paradigm to INCLUDE other non-black racial groups AIDS the discussion of racism between blacks and whites allowing the issue to become LESS SENSITIVE.
Nolan ’03, Laurence Nolan, Professor of Law at Howard University (“‘Yellow: Race in America Beyond Black and White - An Interesting Read for the Great Dissenter in Plessy v. Ferguson,’ by Frank H. Wu,” Book Review, 47 How. L.J. 87, lexis)
Yellow also argues that expanding the paradigm to include other non-black racial groups
AND
whites, but lasting significance to Asian Americans, and vice versa. n113

THE PLIGHT OF SOUTH EAST ASIANS IS UNIQUELY KEY

South East Asians are DISPROVING the model-minority myth, forging identities as new Americans and emerging as a POLITICAL FORCE

THRUPKAEW Prospect Senior Correspondent 2k2
Noy-; The Myth of the Model Minority; THE AMERICAN PROSPECT; April 7;
[[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_myth_of_the_model_minority]]
"Disadvantaged people share a lot in common," Dang continued, "and we
AND
someone who is truly aware of the meaning of freedom to speak out."

===2NC AT Perm=== 
4. Black white binary, permutation entrenches the black white binary, undermines focus on asians
Hutchinson Prof of Law, Washington College of Law, American U,’04
Darren Lenard, Aug 2004 (“Critical Race Theory: History, Evolution, and New Frontiers,” American University Law Review, LN)
Ultimately, however, the exclusive deployment of a binary black/white paradigm artificially
AND
that disparages blacks' assertions of racial injustice by deploying model minority constructs. n111

===2NC Conscientization=== 
THE 1NC SPEECH ACT IS A PERFORMATIVE TRANSFORMATION OF DEBATE INTO A PEDAGOGICAL TOOL OF CONSCIENTIZATION – conscientization is the process of obtaining information to cognitvely understand how lives and lives of others are shaped by historical and social forces, this is key to confronting the nativistic racism we face today

There are CRITICAL ELEMENTS that contribute to conscientization
Obtaining information to cognitively understand how lives and the lives of others are shaped by historical and social structural forces
Breaking through isolation and interrupting the tendency to explain life experiences SOLELY on the basis of individual terms
The realization that SCHOOLING has not interacted with the daily existence of racial groups and racialized experiences
GUIDED research that can affect social change
And the effective combination of all working together

Social activities that can allow individuals to see themselves in relation to the world, breaking away from BINARY CONSTRUCTIONS that separate academia from the social experience of individuals allows the rise of CRITICAL CONSCIOUSNESS necessary to make social change.

OSAJIMA professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands 2k7
Keith-; REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 74-76
CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS

Given the profound change that conscientization had effected in the lives of respondents, it
AND
along with greater coordination of influences, is an important dimension of conscientization.

THE ROUND HAS IMPLICATIONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS

Through the process of debate we can formulate and develop Asian American Consciousness

Young Asian Americans CONTINUE to develop critical consciousness to create SOCIAL CHANGE. It is through experiential learning activities and personal/academic reflection that this Asian American consciousness is developed

OSAJIMA professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands 2k7
Keith-; REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 60
It is evident that young Asian Americans, like their 1960s counterparts, have
AND
oriented reflection, can help to move students toward an Asian American consciousness.


We often competitively participate in debate without ever considering the possibility for how debate can CHANGE the world how the critical thinking and research skills we develop can provide MEANING and advance methodologies to liberate oppressed people often within our social location. Our speech act focuses on the EPISTEMOLOGICAL GROWTH occurring from the activity and the development of critical consciousness. Debate becomes more than a game but a process of life leading to CONSCIENTIZATION

DEVELOPMENT OF ASIAN AMERICAN CONSCIOUSNESS IS POSSIBLE

There is a REAL POSSIBILITY of young Asian Americans becoming CRITICALLY CONSCIOUS and POLITICALLY ACTIVE even in the post-Civil Rights climate in which political momentum has shifted to the right drowning student activism in a sea of apathy or hopelessness. Asian Americans going against the grain realize the politics of conversion where NIHILISM is countered by BELIEF, HOPE and a MEANING to struggle.

OSAJIMA professor and Director of the Race and Ethnic Studies Program @ Univ of Redlands 2k7
Keith-; REPLENISHING THE RANKS: Raising Critical Consciousness Among Asian Americans; JOURNAL OF ASIAN AMERICAN STUDIES (JAAS), February, Volume 10, No. 1; p. 64
The fact that these young Asian Americans, from widely varying class, geographic
AND
and conditions that contribute to the development of an Asian American critical consciousness.


===2NC AT Perm=== 

The PERMUTATION is a CO-OPTION strategy that is REPRESENTATIVE of the status quo’s policing of yellow bodies by rendering them INVISIBLE in the discussion of DOMESTIC WARFARE through issues such as poverty.

Suffering the HIGHEST per capita welfare participation rates, Southeast Asian refugees FICTIONALIZED the conditions of the free market as HUNDREDS of THOUSANDS live in DEEP POVERTY forced to toil in American SWEATSHOPS after being STRIPPED of their protection from refugee status and subjected to U.S. Welfare Cuts. The Southeast Asian Refugee has been COMPLETELY FORGOTTEN and only serves to SEDUCE people into PLEDGING citizenship to the free market.

TANG Assistant Professor in the Department of African American Studies and the Asian American Studies Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago 2000
Eric-; Refugee Reality: Clinton’s Vietnam Fiction; COLORLINES the national news magazine on race and politics; Issue 10, Fall; http://www.colorlines.com/printerfriendly.php?ID=219
During his visit to Vietnam this past week, President Clinton urged the Vietnamese people to embrace the
AND
awaits them upon pledging citizenship to the free market.


===2NC AT Intersectionality=== 
THE AFFIRMATIVE’S CONCEPTION OF RACISM IS OUTDATED.
THE COUNTER ADVOCACY SOLVES BETTER
A NEW FORM OF RACISM HAS SPROUTED WITHIN THE NOTION OF NATION-STATES

KIM Asst Prof of Sociology @ Loyola Marymount Univ. 2k8
Nadia-; IMPERIAL CITIZENS: Koreans and Race from Seoul To LA.; p. 14-15
“Nativistic racism” is the mechanism through which Asian Americans have been outcast
AND
the anniversary of Japan’s bombing of Pearl Harbor (Ancheta 1998:12).

And IGNORING this NEW shift in RACIALIZED nation-building has implications

A NEW GLOBAL RACISM BASED ON CULTURAL EXCLUSION MAKE WAR AND GENOCIDE INEVITABLE
BATURProf of Sociology @ Vassar 2k7
Pinar Batur, PhD @ UT-Austin – Prof. of Scociology @ Vassar
AND
as they bolstered the need to maintain the structure and form of capitalist arrangements
(Batur-VanderLippe 1996).In this context, the white racial frame,
AND
this “geography of hunger and exploitation” are Iraq and New Orleans.

Race is a starting point of identification for all struggles.
DELK Executive Director of the Community Renewal Society 1991
Yvonne-Society located in Chicago Illinois.- Joesph Bardnt-; DISMANTLING RACISM: The Continuing Challenge to White America; p. viii
Racism is perhaps the major moral issue of the twenty-first century.
AND
a world where racial and economic justice can flow like a mighty stream.

==Courts CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal judiciary should rule that transportation infrastructure investment in Indian Country be increased on the grounds that it violates international human rights law.

CP solves better—ruling on international human rights law sets a long term precedent that forces action on indigenous rights
Saito, Professor of Law, @ Georgia State University College of Law, ‘02 [Natsu Taylor, “MID-ATLANTIC PEOPLE OF COLOR LEGAL SCHOLARSHIP CONFERENCE: The Plenary Power Doctrine: Subverting Human Rights in the Name of Sovereignty”, p. lexis]
The concrete consequences of the exercise of this plenary power is a "trust"
AND
Child, n247 have been signed but not ratified by the United States.

The net benefit is elections
Flemming. Professor of polisci at Texas A & M, 97-(Roy Flemming, American Journal of Political Science, Vol. 41, Number 4, American Journal of Political Science)

Filtered by media coverage, there are reasons to expect that the Supreme Court has
AND
Supreme Court's decisions and changes in issue attentiveness by the media and system.

===2NC Agent CP’s Good=== 

Tests the affirmative plan- 90% of policy is implementation, we prove their policy is 90% bad
Elmore, Prof. Public Affairs at University of Washington, PolySci Quarterly 79-80, p. 605, 1980
The emergence of implementation as a subject for policy analysis coincides closely with the discovery
AND
10 percent, leaving the remaining 90 percent in the realm of implementation.


==Equity Impact Statement CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
The United States federal government should offer <plan> if, and only if, the recipient of the investment adopts a decision-making process that evaluates potential disparate impacts of transportation infrastructure accessibility investment. The United States federal government should withhold funding for <plan> investment if, and only if, the result of the investment violates disparate impact regulations as set forth in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act.

Solves the whole aff and is key to prevent discrimination—current applications of Title VI are limited to lawsuits after the project’s implementation and require proof of intentional discrimination—evaluating potential disparate impacts before the implementation and making funding contingent is key
Harvard Law Review, ’03 [April, 2003, 116 Harv. L. Rev. 1774, “After Sandoval: Judicial Challenges and Administrative Possibilities in Title VI Enforcement”, lexis nexis]
Federal agencies must adopt alternative measures to fulfill their enforcement obligations. While changes in
AND
are not prohibitive and are necessary to effectuate the purposes of Title VI.

That’s key – an equity impact statement must precede planning and implementation to make transportation infrastructure less racist and more accessible
Levinson '02
[David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesoata, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]
Environmental justice is a good beginning, but it only considers “fair treatment for
AND
favor the rich over the poor, an issue addressed by examining income equity

Status quo transportation decisions are based solely on efficiency and costs—this ignores issues of equity and maintains status quo hierarchies
Sanchez et al, ’03 [2003, The Civil Rights Project at Harvard University. Thomas W. Sanchez is an associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia. Rich Stolz is Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change. Jacinta S. Ma is a Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard., “MOVING TO EQUITY: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]
Before examining the specific economic and social effects of transportation policies on minority and low
AND
access to social and economic opportunities must be understood in this broader context.

Placing a commitment to transportation equality at the center of our decision-making calculus is critical to break-down racial inequality—necessary to challenge institutional and structural racism that pervades the status quo
JCPES 11 – The Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, an NGO with the goal of improving the socioeconomic status of African Americans and other people of color, expanding their effective participation in the political and public policy arenas, and promoting communications and relationships across racial and ethnic lines, April 13, 2011, “Structural Racism, Privilege, and Policy: A Systems Perspective,” online: [[http://www.jointcenter.org/hpi/sites/all/files/DL14%20Concept%20Paper%2004%2001%2011.pdf]]
Given the nation’s ongoing economic crises, equity is a critical lens through which we
AND
at key points in the system that will facilitate real and lasting equity.

===2NC Solvency=== 
The CP solves better
A. Uncompensated losers coopt the aff
Levinson '02
[David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesoata, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]//
//Any new transportation project or policy creates both winners and losers from the standpoints of//
//AND//
//situations in which the losers are compensated rather than excluded from the process.//

//B. Lowers costs and reduces inefficiencies//
//Kim 2k8// 
//(Sukkoo, Associate Professor, Department of Economics UCLA, Economic History; Urban and Regional Economics; Trade and Development ,“Spatial Inequality and Economic Development: Theories, Facts and Policies” [[@https://docs.google.com/viewer?a=v&q=cache:wm0xC4ZyVu8J:www.growthcommission.org/storage/cgdev/documents/kim_final_draft.pdf+&hl=en&gl=us&pid=bl&srcid=ADGEESjEtZgJt4maAQXU7At0qH_d6skw73SUk1JBRHjSLLFc1EQzvvJUahEmJkZaTfibs8Qq8BW4R346hQGNxlBWVmtBQ79ZOVylFk112mCYbC1ElO1EEmb5ugvpWMA-ZukxiWqkyGi2&sig=AHIEtbTf2vSCCjxg9M1XO5gWyBYFu19gJA&pli=1]], March 2008)//
//There are many reasons for why policy makers may be concerned with spatial inequality.//
//AND//
//regions may contribute to deep political divisions which may impose significant social costs.//

//C. Consideration of equity stops construction blocking//
//Levinson '02//
//[David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesoata, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]
A healthy skepticism by concerned citizens toward transportation projects is warranted on the basis
AND
the measurement of both equity and efficiency can only lead to better decisions.

===2NC Solves Disabilities=== 
Making the assessment mandatory is key solve disabilty—otherwise people will shirk responsibilities
AAPD, 2012 (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)
Lack of enforcement is one of the biggest obstacles to realizing the goals of the
AND
compliance with ADA transportation requirements, the FTA must reinstate its compliance assessments.
==NEPA CP== 
===1NC Shell=== 
Text: The Department of Transportation should submit investment in Alaskan deepwater ports for a National Environmental Policy Act Environmental Impact Statement. The United States federal government should implement the least environmentally damaging alternative identified in the Environmental Impact Statement.

CP solves the case – evaluating environmentally preferable alternatives prior to action forms a better alternative which solves the AFF and avoids environmental consequences
Dreher 05 – Deputy Executive Director of the Georgetown Environmental Law & Policy Institute. He served as Deputy General Counsel of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
Robert, “The Political Assault on the National Environmental Policy Act,” http://www.law.georgetown.edu/gelpi/research_archive/nepa/NEPAUnderSiegeFinal.pdf
Yet another criticism of the NEPA review process is that it impedes the development of
AND
, and we succeeded in avoiding appeals that plague controversial timber sales.” 56

===1NC NEPA Cred NB=== 
The counterplan reverses the trend of categorical exclusions – key to revitalizing NEPA
Green Group 08 – Coalition of 30 Environmental groups, Transition to Green: Environmental Trasnition Recommendation for the Obama Administration, Group Includes: American Rivers - Center For International Environmental Law- Clean Water Action- Defenders Of Wildlife - Earthjustice - Environment America - Environmental Defense Fund - Friends Of The Earth- Greenpeace - Izaak Walton League - League Of Conservation Voters -National Audubon Society - National Parks Conservation Association -National Tribal Environmental Council - National Wildlife Federation- Native American Rights Fund - Natural Resources Defense Council - Oceana -Ocean Conservancy - Pew Environment Group -Physicians For Social Responsibility - Population Connection -Population Action International -Rails-To-Trails Conservancy - Sierra Club - The Wilderness Society -The Trust For Public Land - Union Of Concerned Scientists -World Wildlife Fund, http://otrans.3cdn.net/ba9c868ec4fe74f1b8_2pm62vhlb.pdf
Since 1970, the National Environmental Policy Act (“NEPA”) has required federal agencies
AND
cumulatively have a significant effect on the environment, thus requiring environmental review.

That solves global ecological sustainability
Caldwell 98 – Professor of Political Science @ IU
Lynton K. Caldwell, Prof. of Political Science/Public and Environmental Affairs @ Indiana Univ., 22 Harv. Envtl. L. Rev. 203, Beyond NEPA: Future Significance of the National Environmental Policy Act, Lexis
A distinguishing feature of any society is its prevailing assumptions about its relationship to the
AND
the nation toward an enhanced quality of life and an enduring environmental future.

Extinction
Jowit 08 – sex edited; Julien, The Guardian, World is facing a natural resources crisis worse than financial crunch, http://www.guardian.co.uk/environment/2008/oct/29/climatechange-endangeredhabitats
The world is heading for an "ecological credit crunch" far worse than the
AND
planet Earth," said Chief Emeka Anyaoku, the president of WWF International.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]