[[toc]]
=States CP= 

**States are coordinated and efficient at investing in transportation infrastructure – they have the funding**
**Puentes ’11** [2011, senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, “State Transportation Reform: Cut to Invest in Transportation to Deliver the Next Economy,” pg online @ [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2011/2/22%20infrastructure%20puentes/0222_infrastructure_puentes.pdf]]]

III. A New State Approach An [...]development programs and commissions.

**The federal government is plagued with pork-barrel politics and bureaucratic bungling.**
**Edwards ’11** [Chris Edwards. The Cato Institute. "Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government." Infrastructure Projects to Fix the Economy? Don't Bank on It. | Downsizing the Federal Government. N.p., october 21, 2011. Web. 20 June 2012. <http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/infrastructure-projects-fix-economy-dont-bank-it>.]

In a recent television ad for her network[...]to the public. They're ready.

=Money Control CP= 

**CP restores the perception of fiscal discipline and is a sufficient reduction, but credibility is key—anything more than 60% would be insufficient**
**Galston and MacGuineas, ‘10** [9/30/10, Bill Galston is Ezra Zilkha Chair in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution. Maya MacGuineas is the Director of the Fiscal Policy Program at the New America Foundation., “The Future is Now: A Balanced Plan to Stabilize Public Debt and Promote Economic Growth”]

We believe it is prudent to bring the [...] domestic and international lenders.

=31st MEU PIC= 

**Marines in Okinawa are critical to disaster relief – Prevents hundreds of thousands of deaths.**

**Melton**, U.S. Marine Corps Colonel & Assistant Chief of Staff U.S. Marine Corps Bases, Japan **AND Eldridge**, Ph.D. and former U.S.-Japan Relations & Okinawa History Professor at Osaka University, 3-4-**10** (Dan & Robert, “U.S. marine presence in Okinawa Pref. essential,” [[http://www.yomiuri.co.jp/dy/columns/commentary/20100304dy01.htm]])

The USMC takes seriously "local sensitivities" [...] or significantly contributed to response efforts.

=China Fund CP= 

**CP solves the aff—China will invest in the aff and solves the economy**
**Jiewei, ’11** [10/27/11, Lou Jiewei is a chairman of China Investment Corporation, “China can help west build economic growth” http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/e3c5aacc-18ed-11e1-92d8-00144feabdc0.html#ixzz26DpNCj3o]

Central to international efforts towards [...] chance of a “win-win” solution for all.

=Equity Assessment CP= 

**Solves the whole aff and is key to prevent discrimination—current applications of Title VI are limited to lawsuits after the project’s implementation and require proof of intentional discrimination—evaluating potential disparate impacts before the implementation and making funding contingent is key**
**Harvard Law Review, ’03** [April, 2003, 116 Harv. L. Rev. 1774, “After Sandoval: Judicial Challenges and Administrative Possibilities in Title VI Enforcement”, lexis nexis]

Federal agencies must adopt alternative […] necessary to effectuate the purposes of Title VI.

**That’s key – an equity impact statement must precede planning and implementation to make transportation infrastructure less racist and more accessible**
**Levinson '02**
[David Levinson, Department of Civil Engineering at University of Minnesoata, "Identifying Winners and Losers in Transportation", pg. online @ Levinson nexus.umn.edu/Papers/winnersandlosers.pdf//]

Environmental justice is a good beginning, […]by examining income equity

=Retaliation Sharing CP= 

**Text: The United States Federal Government should adopt a classified policy prohibiting the use of nuclear weapons in response to terrorism. The United States Federal Government should increase greater cooperation and intelligence sharing between national, state, and local law enforcement and intelligence agencies for the prevention of terrorist attacks in the United States**

**FEDERAL INFORMATION SHARING ALLOWS LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO DETER, DISRUPT, AND RESPOND TO TERRORISM**
**ISE 2009**
(Information Sharing Environment, “Information Sharing with State, Local, and Tribal Entities,” March 3, [[http://www.ise.gov/pages/partner-slt.html]])

As our Nation's first "preventers and responders," […] State, local, tribal, and private sector partners. 

=State Micro Bubbles CP= 

**The 50 states should substantially increase investment in transportation infrastructure. The 50 states should fully fund a program to cover 4.8% of the surface of the Earth’s oceans in a monolayer of 0.1 μm diameter latex particles, either hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water.**

**Solves warming, only costs $2 billion, and avoids all solvency deficits associated with traditional ocean albedo modifications.**
**Morgan 11** [10/8/11, John, PhD in physical chemistry, runs R&D programmes at a Sydney startup company, research experience in chemical engineering in the US and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's national science agency, “Low intensity geoengineering – microbubbles and microspheres,” [[http://bravenewclimate.com/2011/10/08/low-intensity-geoengineering-microbubbles-and-microspheres/]]]

Is there another way to look at this? The […]for the microbubble concept, are also possible.

**States solve comparatively better than the federal government**
**Roth, 10** [a civil engineer and transportation economist. He is currently a research fellow at the Independent Institute. During his 20 years with the World Bank, he was involved with transportation projects on five continents [Gabriel, [[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/highway-funding]]]]

[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/transportation/highway-funding#top|Conclusions]] Americans are frustrated by rising traffic congestion. In […] challenges ahead that America faces in highway infrastructure. 

=Chinese Immigrants CP= 

**The People’s Republic of China should fully fund a program to cover 4.8% of the surface of the Earth’s oceans in a monolayer of 0.1 μm diameter latex particles, either hollow, or of core-shell morphology, bearing a conventional stabilization system that is inactivated in salt water. The United States Federal Government should increase the cap on H-1B Visas to 195,000.**

**Solves warming, only costs $2 billion, and avoids all solvency deficits associated with traditional ocean albedo modifications.**
**Morgan 11** [10/8/11, John, PhD in physical chemistry, runs R&D programmes at a Sydney startup company, research experience in chemical engineering in the US and at the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, Australia's national science agency, “Low intensity geoengineering – microbubbles and microspheres,” [[http://bravenewclimate.com/2011/10/08/low-intensity-geoengineering-microbubbles-and-microspheres/]]]

Is there another way to look at this? The […]Seitz for the microbubble concept, are also possible.

**Solves competitiveness and economy - increases innovation, talent, and job creation**
**David Bier 6/17/12,** - immigration policy analyst at the Competitive Enterprise Institute- “H1-B Visa Quotas Greatly Restrain Small Business Expansion”; Forbes Magazine; [[http://www.forbes.com/sites/realspin/2012/06/17/h1-b-visa-quotas-greatly-restrain-small-business-expansion/]]

U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (CIS) […] entrepreneurship, and job creation, benefiting all Americans.¶ 

=Accessible T/I CP= 

**The United States Federal Government should offer a substantial increase in its equitable fix-it-first transportation infrastructure investment in the United States if and only if it is accessible.**

**Transportation inaccessibility excludes disabled people from the community**
**AAPD, 2012** (The American Association of People With Disabilities, “Equity in Transportation for People with Disabilities”, May 23, http://www.infrastructureusa.org/equity-in-transportation-for-people-with-disabilities/)

Transportation and mobility play key roles […]on accessible taxis, a lack of requirements has meant very uneven progress.

**Specifically—These seemingly innocuous investment decisions render differently-abled people prisoner to a transportation infrastructure system that forces immobility upon them.**
**Langan, 2001** (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)

To think about mobility disability is to think […] “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. 

**This relationship to those who are differently abled culminates in the genocidal impulse – the institutional spaces of exclusion epitomized by transportation policies legitimize state-sponsored violence** 
**Hughes, 2002** (Bill, Professor of Social Policy at the University Glasgow, Disability Studies, p. 60-62)

The dominant framework for understanding disability in the […]translate into a politics of genocide.