[[toc]]
=Asia= 
==1NC Indo Pak War Shell== 
India-Pakistan war won’t happen—nuclear deterrence solves
Malik, 03 (Mohan, The Stability Of Nuclear Deterrence In South Asia, Asian Affairs, Fall, )

The presence of nuclear weapons certainly makes states exceedingly cautious, notable examples are China
AND
, ensunng pe*sornel reliability and secure transport of sensitwe items.27

India/Pakistan nuclear war would remain limited and wouldn’t cause massive destruction.
Copley News Service June 10, 2002 “Fallout from nuclear war in South Asia seen as unlikely to reach U.S.”

The horror of a nuclear war between India and Pakistan could decimate South Asia's largest
AND
co-authored a 1985 study on the environmental effects of nuclear war.

No chance of Indo-Pak nuclear war and even if it happened it’d only kill 150 million
Bruce Loudon, South Asia correspondent for The Australian, 12-4, 2008, “Doomsday Dread,” The Australian, online: http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,24746635-25837,00.html
THE doomsayers' published assessments tell the grim story: upwards of 12 million people killed
AND
nuclear weapons, matched only by the intense secrecy that surrounds their arsenals.
==1NC Indian Economy Shell== 
Indian economy is resilient
Business Line 8 (“Opinion Not Convincing Enough”, 6-26, Lexis)

The RBI has drawn some comfort from the fact that the Indian economy presents some
AND
that the administrative dynamism so essential to unshackling the economy is in place.

Indian econ is resilient.
Hindustan Times – 9/19/08 (“Indian economy resilient enough to stave off any spillover: FM”, http://www.hindustantimes.com/StoryPage/StoryPage.aspx?sectionName=&id=9837186c-df47-4739-af98-469b67304fc9&MatchID1=4813&TeamID1=6&TeamID2=1&MatchType1=1&SeriesID1=1212&PrimaryID=4813&Headline=FM+allays+fears+over+global+financial+turmoil)

Finance Minister P Chidambaram on Thursday allayed fears over the global financial turmoil, saying
AND
said, adding there could be some short-term squeeze on credit.
==1NC Instability Shell== 
US won’t be drawn in – No escalation.
Jeffrey Record 01, professor of strategy and international security at the Air War College at Maxwell AFB, senior research fellow at the Center for Int’l Strategy, Technology, and Policy at the Georgia Institute of Technology, PhD from Johns Hopkins School of Advanced Int’l Studies, Winter 2001, Aerospace Power Journal, v15 i4, “Thinking about China and War,” p. InfoTrac OneFile
Chinese military action against Asian mainland states not allied with the United States probably would
AND
-Pakistani exchange during the South Asian nuclear-war scare of 1999.

No risk – Break-up of states is unlikely, ideological tensions decreased, and multilateral structures prevent war.
Straits Times 08 “Why War is Unlikely in Asia” http://www.asiaone.com/News/the%2BStraits%2BTimes/Story/A1Story20080625-72716.html
Nevertheless, the region is more stable than one might believe. Separatism remains a
AND
the nascent Six-Party Talks forum and, in particular, Asean.

==1NC Japan Relations Shell== 
Relations are crazy resilient – assurance of security, public support, common goals, and benefits of the alliance
William S. Cohen 2k, Secretary of Defense [Japan National Press Club 3/17, http://www.defenselink.mil/speeches/speech.aspx?speechid=545]
In fact, given the astonishing and unpredictable rush of world events today – events
AND
. I think the past 50 years illustrate the resilience of our partnership.

Alliance is unbreakable and decline is empirically denied
Okamoto 2 (Yukio, President – Okamoto Associates, Washington Quarterly, Spring, Lexis)
Given the magnitude of the danger that an end of the alliance would pose to
AND
states is well-nigh unbreakable -- because there are no acceptable alternatives.

Relations are high - Bilateral agreements and cooperation – 7 specific issues.
The White House 4/27/07 [Office of the Press Secretary, “Fact Sheet: U.S.-Japan Cooperation to Tackle Global Trade, Energy, and Environmental Challenges,” http://www.whitehouse.gov/news/releases/2007/04/20070427-1.html]
In today’s meetings, the two leaders continued to build on the strong alliance between
AND
countries, while strengthening nuclear non-proliferation, safety, and security.

Alliance strain inevitable – multiple reasons (no common enemy, trade and economic conflict, Japanese nationalism, US isolationism, and lack of security focus)
Christensen 3 (Thomas J., Prof. PoliSci @ MIT, contributor to International Relations Theory and the Asia-Pacific, New York : Columbia University Press, c 2003, pgs. 32-33)
Chinese security analysts followed these trends in U.S.-Japan relations with great
AND
worsening U.S.-Japan trade conflicts to speed the alliance's demise.

==1NC Japan Relations (Guam)== 

The Guam relocation doesn’t resolve the Futenma issue which is the critical issue in the alliance
Tatsumi, ’12 [2/16/12, Yuki Tatsumi is a Senior Associate at the Stimson Center., “Future of the US Marines in Okinawa — long-term risks for short-term gain?”, http://csis.org/files/publication/Pac1211.pdf]
In the short term, last week’s agreement seems to relieve the pressure on Washington
AND
relocation plan will benefit the US-Japan alliance in the long run.
==1NC Korean War Shell== 
Impact is empirically disproven and won’t escalate
Leslie H. Gelb 11/23/2010 President Emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations “The Next Korean War?”
The Daily Beast http://www.thedailybeast.com/blogs-and-stories/2010-11-23/north-koreas-attack-on-south-korea-leslie-h-gelb-on-the-prospects-for-war/
This may be the most dangerous moment on the Korean Peninsula since the truce ending
AND
North Koreans have provided quietly during several recent visits by private American groups.



=China= 
==1NC Cooperation Shell== 
Some degree of cooperation is inevitable
Garret, 2006; director of the Asia Program at the Atlantic Counci and former DOD consultant Journal of Contemporary China, Volume 15, Issue 48 August
This analysis is cautiously optimistic that the first path - that toward building more robust
AND
, holds the potential for direct military conflict between the two globalizing powers.

Cooperation is resilient

Wan 9/7 (China: U.S. relations 'sound', 7 September 2010, http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2010/09/06/AR2010090603660.html)
At a time of tension in U.S.-China relations, a three
AND
the two countries also don't seem to want the relationship to deteriorate again."

==1NC South China Sea Shell== 
South China Seas are stable – China lacks capability and interdependence checks
Rosenberg 9 (David, Professor of Political Science – Middlebury College and Research Fellow at the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies – Australian National University, “Dire Straits: Competing Security Priorities in the South China Sea”, The Asia-Pacific Journal, 3-20, http://japanfocus.org/-David-Rosenberg/1773)

From the Taiwan Strait to the Strait of Malacca, security concerns are growing around
AND
a Chinese meltdown, as many regional monetary authorities are quick to note.

Multitude of factors check war (Geography, ASEAN, Shipping Lanes, and Political Costs)
Joyner 98 (Chris, Professor of International Relations – Georgetown University, New England Law Review, Spring, Lexis)
Nevertheless, several factors suggest the unlikelihood of large-scale military conflict over the
AND
Asian states, including other claimants to the Spratlys, underscores that reluctance.

U.S. won’t intervene
Betts 97 (Prof. Political Science and International Security Policy Studies, Vietnam Joins The World)
Neither Hanoi nor the other claimants who oppose Beijing are likely to be able to
AND
the South China Sea between an American company, Crestone, and China.

China has toned down its threatening posture in the South China Sea.
Robert Sutter 02, Professor of Asian Studies, Georgetown University, 2002, The Washington Quarterly, Autumn, p. 42-3
This area has experienced a growth of Chinese influence, coinciding with a period of
AND
of conduct that would regulate tension over the disputes and avoid military clashes.


Risk of military conflict is low – Empirically conflicts have been resolved peacefully.
Brad Glosserman, 2001, Director for Research, CSIS Pacific Forum, Confidence Building Measures in the South China Sea, CSIS Issues and Insights, August, www.csis.org/pacfor/issues%5Cissues_scs.pdf
While the EP-3 incident highlighted the possibility of accidental conflict
AND
capability to unilaterally enforce and defend its claim.
South China Sea won’t escalate—no incentive to create war
Mingjiang, ’12 [June 14th, 2012, Li Mingjiang, RSIS, “China’s non-confrontational assertiveness in the South China Sea”, http://www.eastasiaforum.org/2012/06/14/china-s-non-confrontational-assertiveness-in-the-south-china-sea/]
But, other factors may very well prevent actual confrontation from breaking out. China’s
AND
fences with relevant parties in ways that are justifiable to its domestic audience.

Their evidence doesn’t assume the new leader—the most recent evidence on this question proves China is being more peaceful
AP, ‘9/21 [September 21, 2012, Associated Press, “China sidesteps South China Sea island disputes”, http://www.cbsnews.com/8301-202_162-57518253/china-sidesteps-south-china-sea-island-disputes/]
(AP) BEIJING - China has sought to soothe neighbors it has feuded with
AND
development goals and has a limited capacity to handle multiple diplomatic crises simultaneously.
==1NC Deterrence Bad (Guam)== 
No impact—overwhelming historical data proves there will be no transition conflict and accepting relative declines in power is key to overall leadership and avoids foreign entanglements
Parent and MacDonald, ’11 [Joseph M. Parent is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. Paul K. MacDonald is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College “The Wisdom of Retrenchment: America Must Cut Back to Move Forward”, Foreign Affairs, November/December 2011]
Even if a policy of retrenchment were possible to implement, would it work?
AND
would also allow the United States to restore some luster to its leadership.

Turn—Political Support—Retrenchment now is key to hegemony—only politically sustainable option, otherwise US leadership is ineffective
Kupchan and Trubowitz, ’07 [Charles A. Kupchan is Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown University and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and Peter L. Trubowitz is Associate Professor of Government at the University of Texas at Austin and Senior Fellow at the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law., “Dead Center” International Security, Vol. 32, No. 2 (Fall 2007), pp. 7–44]
A strategy of judicious retrenchment may not be the preferred course of neoconservative Republicans or
AND
but also restores the political equilibrium necessary to sustain a coherent national strategy.

Turn—Power Broking—
a. Status Quo Solves—that allows the US to prevent conflict and maintain positive ties with China—the perception of the plan causes war
Greene, ’12 [January 2012, David J. Greene, “U.S. Strategy in Southeast Asia: Power Broker, Not Hegemon”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/strategy-in-southeast-asia.html,Joint Force Quarterly 64]
The narrative of a U.S.-China rivalry for influence in Southeast Asia
AND
that China’s only option is to arm itself and challenge the United States.

b. Aff causes SCS war—expanding military capabilities
Greene, ’12 [January 2012, David J. Greene, “U.S. Strategy in Southeast Asia: Power Broker, Not Hegemon”, http://www.ndu.edu/press/strategy-in-southeast-asia.html,Joint Force Quarterly 64]
The countries of the region are in effect playing on multiple chess boards simultaneously,
AND
interests in Southeast Asia as a power broker, not a hegemon. JFQ

Turn—Relations
a. Greater marine presence in Southeast Asia is collapses Sino relations—perceived as containment
Carpenter, ’11 [10/30/11, Ted Galen Carpenter, “Washington's Clumsy China Containment Policy”, http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/washingtons-clumsy-china-containment-policy]
Those moves, along with previous efforts to strengthen cooperative military ties with other traditional
AND
bode well for the future of the U.S.-China relationship.

b. That risks escalation and kills cooperation which solves warming, economy, and trade
Pollack—US Government Consultant on arms control, proliferation, and deterrence issues—‘9
Joshua, Emerging strategic dilemmas in U.S.-Chinese relations, July/August, http://thebulletin.metapress.com/content/24783518wg6304j7/?p=bb5308fdbf1b41d489dde90b78909b06&pi=5
But the present calm is not guaranteed to last. Two waves of confrontation between
AND
a trans-Pacific strategic arms race before it becomes self-fulfilling.

c. Extinction—outweighs on magnitude and probability
The New York End Times 2006 (The New York End Times is a non-partisan, non-religious, non-ideological, free news filter. We monitor world trends and events as they pertain to two vital threats - war and extinction. We use a proprietary methodology to quantify movements between the extremes of war and peace, harmony and extinction.
http://newyorkendtimes.com/extinctionscale.asp)
We rate Global Climate Change as a greater threat for human extinction in this century
AND
monitor war separately. However we also need to incorporate the dangers here.
==1NC US War Shell== 
A. Conventional Forces and Nuke Primacy
Lieber and Press, ’07 [Keir A., Associate professor in the Security Studies Program at Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service, and Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College and Coordinator of the War and Peace Studies Program at the John Sloan Dickey Center for International Understanding, “Superiority Complex,” The Atlantic Online, July/August, http://www.dartmouth.edu/~dpress/docs/Press_Superiority_Complex_ATL.pdf]
The most plausible flash point for a serious U.S.-China conflict is
AND
he or she would reap the benefits of the past decade’s counterforce upgrades.

B. Economic interdependence
Perry & Scowcroft, ’09 *Professor at Stanford University, **Resident Trustee of the Forum for International Policy [William & Brent, 2009, “US Nuclear Weapons Policy,” Council on Foreign Relations]
Economic interdependence provides an incentive to avoid military conflict and nuclear confrontation. Although the
AND
Beijing-Washington relationship points toward potentially promising dialogues on larger strategic issues.

C. Fear of Uprising
Dr. Michael E. Marti, 02, Senior Fellow at the Center for the Study of Chinese Military Affairs at the Institute for Strategic Studies at National Defense University, September 2002, “China’s Taiwan Policy: Carrot and Stick,” http://www.dsis.org.tw/peaceforum/papers/2002-09/CSP0209001e.pdf

In addition to the Bush Administration’s tougher stand, there is another important consideration that
AND
democracy (Taiwan), with which it has growing economic and cultural ties.

==1NC Taiwan War Shell== 
Taiwan conflict won’t draw in the U.S. – Recent developments prove
CD, ’10 [5/4/10, China Daily, “Taiwan pledges not to seek US help in war”, [[@http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/china/2010-05/04/content_9804241.htm]]]
Beijing - Mainland experts on Monday hailed Taiwan leader Ma Ying-jeou's pledge that
AND
$6 billion worth of weapons, causing a tough response from Beijing.

Independently, long term trends solve war – Taiwan is being a partner to China – Finland proves
Straits times, ‘10 (Goh Sui Noi, “'Finlandisation' route for Taiwan?”, 2010, L/N)
AS 2009 drew to a close, Taiwan's President Ma Ying-jeou on New
AND
to recognise Taiwan as a sovereign state - something it would never do.

China won’t go to war with Taiwan – cross-Strait ties
Nie, ‘09 (Jing, Masters Student in Pol. Sci. – U. Toledo, “Kantian Peace Theory and the Taiwan Strait”, As partial fulfillment of the requirements for the Master of Arts Degree in Political Science, December, http://etd.ohiolink.edu/send-pdf.cgi/Nie%20Jing.pdf?acc_num=toledo1260832420)
The Taiwan Strait is a global hot spot that has the potential to trigger a
AND
Therefore, Kantian peace theory’s relevance for the Taiwan Strait conflict is limited.

Taiwan has military and geographical advantages
Gholz, Press, and Sapolsky, 97 (Eugene Gholz and Daryl Press, doctoral candidates in political science at MIT. Harvey Sapolsky, professor of public policy at MIT. International Security, Vol. 21, No. 4. Spring 1997,)
Current US strategy implicitly assumes that America must remain engaged because of the Asian countries'
AND
access to advanced Western weapons, it will be able to defend itself.

===2NC Nuclear Primacy=== 
Err negative – the role of nuclear deterrence is consistently understated – the absence of any Asian crisis in the status quo proves our argument
Alagappa, ‘09 [Muthiah, Distinguished Senior Fellow at the East-West Center, “Nuclear Weapons reinforce Security and Stability in 21st Century Asia,” http://globalasia.org/articles/issue9/iss9_17.html, SM]
Only the United States is seeking to develop significant offensive and defensive nuclear weapon capabilities
AND
does not imply irrelevance or that nuclear weapons do not contribute to stability.

No First Use AND Err Negative – Western Media exaggerates threats
Pan 5 (Pan Zhenqiang, Vice-President of China Foundation for International Studies and Academic Changes, retired Major General of the PLA, China Security at the World Security Institute China Program, 8/2005, Issue No. 1 of China Security)
It is perhaps also appropriate here to say a few words about the overreactions of
AND
rejected it even in the post-Cold War era when it enjoys unprecedented

===2NC Economic Interdependence=== 
Bilateral ties create the equivalent of an economic MAD
Nikkei Weekly 9 (Nikkei Weekly Japanese newspaper, “'G-2' draws differing views”, 6/29/09, ln)
Akira Kojima, trustee and senior fellow of the Japan Center for Economic Research, pointed out that something
that might be called an economic version of the "mutual assured destruction" concept
AND
Two" becoming "the driver of the global economy," he said.

AND, PLA control guarantees peace – they care more about economic growth
Ng 8 (Grace Ng, journalist for Straits Times, 11/18/08, “Today's PLA has friendly face but high-tech muscle”, straits times, ln)
CHINA'S People Liberation Army (PLA) has sought to soften its image, even
AND
to the past', said Dr Li Mingjiang of RSIS at the conference.
=Critical= 
==1NC Deconstruction Shell== 
There is zero means to actualize their alternative – Derrida deconstructs himself to death
Eagleton, Professor of Cultural Theory at the University of Manchester, 99 (Terry, “Marxism without Marxism,” in Ghostly Demarcations: A Symposium on Jacques Derrida’s Specters of Marx, edited by Michael Sprinker)
There is an exasperating kind of believer who holds what he does until he meets
AND
anything as determinate as coming. Spectres of Marxism indeed. 85-87


==1NC Race Talk Turns== 
RACISM IS PREDICATED ON THE MYTH OF EXISTING RACIAL CATEGORIES

Knowability of racial categories is one of the myths of race, taught as if they had scientific bases but undoubtedly used to serve social and political needs.

Leslie Espinoza, law professor, Boston College, CALIFORNIA LAW REVIEW, October 1997,pp. 1607-8.
There is a horrific beauty about the system of oppression we call racism. For
AND
South Asians? Undoubtedly our categories expand to serve social and political needs.

USE OF RACIALIZED CATEGORIES OF IDENTITY SHOULD BE REJECTED

Everything about Racial definitions perpetuate negative connotations of identity, Race is always negative and never positive. We “race” ourselves into loneliness, isolation and mired in poverty.

Leslie Espinoza, law professor, Boston College, CALIFORNIA LAW REVIEW, October 1997, pp. 1607-8.
Race definitions operate to define the “have-nots” and to mask the
AND
in a way that leaves us lonely, isolated and mired in poverty.

RACISM IS A SOCIAL CONSTRUCTION; WHEN WE RESIST RACIAL CONSTRUCTIONS, EMANCIPATION IS POSSIBLE

Ian F. Haney Lopez, Assistant Professor, University of Wisconsin Law School, Harvard Civil Rights-Civil Liberties Law Review, Winter 1994, p. 62 (PDCL2000)
This is the promise of choice at its brightest: by choosing to resist racial
AND
, remains subject to contestation at the hands of individuals and communities alike.

IT IS OUR DISCOURSE THAT GIVES RACE ITS MEANING

Race is a consciousness matrix. Race exists within our individual and cultural consciousness We fuel the social construction of race with our intellectual logs.

Reginald Leamon Robinson. Professor of Law, Howard University School of Law, Boston College Third World Law Journal, Spring 2000, p. 232-5
Although we socially, historically, and psychologically co-create racism and white
AND
is way, race is not only constructed but is also a consciousness matrix
==1NC Util Shell== 
An ethic of foresight is essential to human dignity and survival – we must be willing to shape our present actions in a way that avoids short-term challenges to existence
Hayward, 2006 (Peter C., Ph.D. from Swinburne University of Technology, From Individual to Social Foresight, The Case for Foresight, November 8, [[http://adt.lib.swin.edu.au/uploads/approved/adt-VSWT20061108.153623/public/02whole.pdf]])
The second response is commonly referred to as `TINA', (There Is No
AND
, in some small way, to the trajectory towards preferable futures.


Extinction comes first
Bok, 1988 (Sissela, Professor of Philosophy at Brandeis, Applied Ethics and Ethical Theory, Rosenthal and Shehadi, Ed.)
The same argument can be made for Kant’s other formulations of the Categorical Imperative:
AND
post a strong challenge to the unity and simplicity of Kant’s moral theory.

Maximizing life allows people to decide their own values – the alternative is totalitarianism
Szacki, 1996 (Jerzy, Professor of Sociology at Warsaw University, Liberalism After Communism, p. 197)
Liberalism does not say which of these different moralities is better than others. It
AND
does not treat them as equals if it prefers one conception to another’.

Despite all the flaws associated with calculating risk, we are still right – you must weigh survival as an a priori question and sculpt deliberate policies to protect humanity
Matheny, 2007 (Jason, Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, “Reudcing the Risk of Human Extinction”, Risk Analysis, Vol. 27 No. 5, http://www.upmc-biosecurity.org/website/resources/publications/2007_orig-articles/2007-10-15-reducingrisk.html)
9. Conclusion We may be poorly equipped to recognize or plan for extinction risks
AND
seen as an essential part of a portfolio of risk-reducing projects.
=Economy= 
==1NC Shell== 
Growth high now—housing sector, energy production, banking, industrial base, and deficit reduction compromises that are coming by the end of the year—history proves
Altman, former US deputy Treasury secretary, ‘9/3 [9/3/12, Roger Altman is founder and chairman of Evercore Partners and a former US deputy Treasury secretary, “The US economy may surprise us all”, http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/f7ec3e66-f5ac-11e1-bf76-00144feabdc0.html#axzz25j9wVhop]
But when they do, it is possible that the US economy will surprise on
AND
reduction programme that would boost confidence, the stock market and private investment.

1. No impact—
a) No mass economic instability—structural factors make markets resilient
Zakaria, 09 – Ph.D. in Political Science from Harvard, Editor of Newsweek (Fareed, “The Secrets of Stability,” Newsweek, 12/12/09, http://www.newsweek.com/id/226425)
Others predicted that these economic shocks would lead to political instability and violence in the
AND
. The current global economic system is inherently more resilient than we think.

b) Core drivers of foreign policy are constant—economic decline has minimal effect
Blackwill 2009 – former associate dean of the Kennedy School of Government and Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for Strategic Planning (Robert, RAND, “The Geopolitical Consequences of the World Economic Recession—A Caution”, http://www.rand.org/pubs/occasional_papers/2009/RAND_OP275.pdf, WEA)
But it is worth asking, as the magisterial American soldier/statesman George Marshall
AND
of the historian.” 33 Perhaps the same is occasionally true of pundits.

2. US not key to the global economy – every qualified economist, a nobel laureate, economic data, the World Bank, and investors all agree
Kennedy, ’10 [Oct 4, 2010, Simon Kennedy, “Wall Street Sees World Economy Decoupling From U.S”, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/print/2010-10-03/world-economy-decoupling-from-u-s-in-slowdown-returns-as-wall-street-view.html]
Wall Street economists are reviving a bet that the global economy will withstand the U
AND
.S. as it suffers a “growth recession” of weak expansion
and rising unemployment, he said.Giving him confidence is his calculation that the
AND
Hibbert, said at a Sept. 8 presentation to reporters in London.


===2NC Collapse =/= War=== 
b) Guns V. Butter – economic depression creates the potential for conflict mitigation by sapping resources necessary for escalation
Bennett and Nordstrom, ‘2K [Scott Bennet and Timothy Nordstrom are professors at the department of political science at Penn State, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, JSTOR]
Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in
AND
of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States.

c) Deterrence solves the impact
DEUDNEY 1999 (Daniel, Asst Prof of Poli Sci at Johns Hopkins, Contested Grounds: Security and Conflict in the New Environmental Politics)
Part of the reason for this loosening of the link between economic and military power
AND
in the 1990s has not diminished Russia's ability to deter great power attack.

Some distinctions--
First, Empirics—93 crises after WW2 prove
Miller, ‘2K [Morris Miller is an economist, adjunct professor in the University of Ottawa’s Faculty of Administration, consultant on international development issues, former Executive Director and Senior Economist at the World Bank,, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, “Poverty as a cause of wars?” http://www.management.uottawa.ca/miller/poverty.htm, SM]
Do wars spring from a popular reaction to an economic crisis that exacerbates poverty and
AND
30,000 annual average income per person to less than $400.

And, our data is better—their pre WW2 empirics don’t apply
Deudney, ’91 (Daniel, Hewlett Fellow in Science, Technology, and Society at the Center for Energy and Environmental Studies, Princeton University, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, April)
Poverty wars. First cause internal turmoil, then war. If groups at all
AND
growth is retarded by environmental constraints, military spending will exacerbate the problem.

Second, reject their evidence as fear mongering—recent statistics disprove their impact
Barnett 2009 – WPR columnist and editor for Esquire, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions (8/24, Thomas, World Politics Review, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis”, http://www.worldpoliticsreview.com/articles/4213/the-new-rules-security-remains-stable-amid-financial-crisis, WEA)
When the global financial crisis struck roughly a year ago, the blogosphere was ablaze
AND
fear-mongering to proceed apace. That's what the Internet is for.


===2NC Decoupling=== 
Business links don’t correlate with changes in cycles and foreign economies are resilient
Kohn 2008 – PhD in economics from Michigan, Chairman of the Committee on the Global Financial System, Vice Chairman of the Fed(Donald, speech at the International Research Forum on Monetary Policy in Frankfurt, “Global Economic Integration and Decoupling”, http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/kohn20080626a.htm)
What about our more recent experience? During the first three quarters of 2007,
AND
prices of emerging market equities rebounded more substantially than those of industrial countries.

Independently, Structural factors make foreign markets resilient – Lower debt, resilient banking and large exchange reserves
NYT, 9 (New York Times, Some Economies Show Signs of Less Reliance on U.S., June 30, 2009,
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/07/01/business/economy/01decouple.html?ref=business)

HONG KONG — For a while, when the economic crisis was at its worst
AND
are looking like they will also to come out first — and strongest.”

Prefer our argument
a. There evidence operates under the assumption that there is a “global economy” – Trade, interest rates, corporate profits and liquid capital prove that economic links are regional
Fletcher 2010 – Adjunct Fellow at the San Francisco office of the U.S. Business and Industry Council (7/7, Ian, Huffington Post, “The myth of the global economy”, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ian-fletcher/the-myth-of-the-global-ec_b_638546.html, props to Mustafa for the cite)
If there's one thing everyone knows these days, whether they're happy about it or
AND
driving force was national political needs that found a solution in economic development.
s.

===2NC AT Studies=== 
Their studies use flawed models
a) Misspecified models
Bennett and Nordstrom, ‘2K [Scott Bennet and Timothy Nordstrom are professors at the department of political science at Penn State, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, JSTOR, SM]
While diversionary conflict theory has been the subject of much scholarly attention, the evidence
AND
states become targets) differs from a strategic application of diversionary conflict theory.

b. 670 studies disprove
Boehmer, ‘02 [3/24/2002, Charles Boehmer is a Professor of Political Science at Pennsylvania State U, “Domestic Crisis and Interstate Conflict: The Impact of Economic Crisis, Domestic Discord, and State Efficacy on the Decision to Initiate Interstate Conflict”, paper presented to the International Studies Association, http://isanet.ccit.arizona.edu/noarchive/boehmer.html)
I have argued in this study that economic growth should be positively related to militarized
AND
case may not be applicable to other countries or necessarily work as successfully.
===2NC AT Royal=== 
Royal votes negative—
Royal, your author, ‘10—director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense (Jedediah, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, published in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 217, google books, AL)

There is, however, another trend at play. Economic crises tend to fragment
AND
and they are needed most' (Schweller, 2006, p. 130).

No impact to trade wars
David H. Bearce 03 Grasping the Commercial Institutional Peace, University of Pittsburgh - International Studies Quarterly (2003) 47, 347–370
Even as we accept that such trade dispute settlement mechanisms help resolve economic conflict,
AND
institutions simply have no jurisdiction or power to resolve highly contentious territorial disagreements.

And, scholarly consensus votes negative
Haftel 04 [From the Outside Looking In: The Effect of Trading Blocs on Trade Disputes in the GATT/WTO Yoram Z. Haftel, Ohio State University . International Studies Quarterly Volume 48, Issue 1, Pages 121-142 Published Online: 29 Jan 2004]
These findings have several theoretical implications as well. First, as my empirical analysis
AND
economic conflicts and military conflicts (Mansfield and Pollins, 2001:852).

===2NC AT Mega Regions=== 
Megaregion theory is wrong – Norway disproves and it’s a good test case
Wadhwa, ’11 [6/14/11, VivekWadhwa, Columnist @ the Washington Post, “Industry clusters: The modern-day snake oil” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-innovations/industry-clusters-the-modern-day-snake-oil/2011/06/19/gIQAMtx3EI_story.html]]]
A recent analysis of 1,604 companies in the five largest Norwegian cities underscores
AND
breakthroughs translate into invention. That’s the correct formula for nurturing regional growth.

HSR doesn’t solve their megaregions advantage – more comprehensive changes are key
Freemark, ’10 [8/13/10, YonahFreemark is an urbanist who has worked in architecture and planning and who has written for a number of media outlets, “Overselling the Benefits of High-Speed Rail”, http://www.cahsrblog.com/2010/08/in-defense-of-richard-florida-on-hsr/]
Moreover, a commitment to high-speed rail may change the way Americans get
AND
. From that perspective, high-speed rail is of secondary importance.

==1NC Economy (NIB)== 
Long time frame means the bank doesn’t solve
Utt, ’11 [10/20/11, Ronald D. Utt is the Morgan Senior Research Fellow in Economic Policy at the Heritage Foundation., Ph.D., “The Limited Benefits of a National Infrastructure Bank”, http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/10/the-limited-beneftis-of-a-national-infrastructure-bank]
Infrastructure-based stimulus programs have been a disappointment, in large part because of
AND
administrative expenses that might better be used for actual infrastructure repair and investment.

==1NC Economy (Climate Hardening)== 
Alt cause—financial sector
Dlugolecki et al 2002 Andrew Director Andlug Consulting, Climate Risk to the Global Economy – CEO Briefing, paper written by the UN Environmental Policy Financial Initiative working group, http://www.dlc.org/documents/UN_Climate-Change_Study.pdf
Climate change poses a major risk to the global economy. The increasing frequency of
AND
, by harnessing market mechanisms with a skilful blend of policies and measures.

==1NC Congestion Shell== 
Can’t solve traffic congestion
Downs 4 [Fall 2004, Anthony Downs is a Senior Fellow at Brookings Institution, Fall 2004, Keynote address to UCTC’s Annual Student Research Conference at the University of California, Davis, [[http://www.uctc.net/access/25/Access%2025%20-%2004%20-%20Traffic%20Congestion%20is%20Here%20to%20Stay.pdf]]]
The least understood aspect of peak-hour trafﬁc congestion is the Principle of Triple
AND
the 1990s, or in Dallas, where a new such system opened.

Reducing congestion has almost no positive effect on productivity
Tatom, ‘93 [November/December 1993, John Tatom is an assistant vice president at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, “Is an Infrastructure Crisis Lowering the Nation’s Productivity?” Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, [[http://research.stlouisfed.org/publications/review/93/11/Infrastructure_Nov_Dec1993.pdf%5d|http://research.stlouisfed.org/publications/review/93/11/Infrastructure_Nov_Dec1993.pdf]]]

Both Aaron (1990) and Musgrave (1990) criticize the Aschauer (1990
AND
this would not necessarily boost their ratio, or business sector productivity.21

==1NC Economy (Icebreakers)== 
On their shipbuilding internal
a. Doesn’t solve shipbuilding—labor shortages and an aging workforce—that’s 1AC Cropsey–-that outweighs the aff’s stimulus
ICAF, ’11 [Spring 2011, The Industrial College of the Armed Forces, “Final Report: Shipbuilding Industry”, Industry Study, http://www.ndu.edu/es/programs/academic/industry/reports/2011/pdf/icaf-is-report-shipbuilding-2011.pdf]
An adequate, skilled labor pool to support the US shipbuilding industry is a strategic
AND
—either because these labor pools are less expensive or more readily available.

b. Shipbuilding industry is sustainable now
Munoz, ’12 [Carlo Munoz, 04/02/12, “Panetta: Reduced Navy fleet size won’t sink US shipbuilding, defense industries”, http://thehill.com/blogs/defcon-hill/navy/219517-panetta-new-navy-ship-strategy-will-support-us-industrial-base]
The Navy's new five-year shipbuilding plan provides adequate support for U.S
AND
of a given program and generate savings over the life of the deal.

On their shipping industry internal—
a. Shipping industry not key to the economy
Alexander, ’09 [March 31, 2009, Jeff Alexander at the Muskegon Chronicle, “Environmentalists call St. Lawrence Seaway an economic bust and environmental disaster for Great Lakes”, http://www.mlive.com/news/muskegon/index.ssf/2009/03/environmentalists_blast_seaway.html]
The St. Lawrence Seaway, an engineering marvel that linked the Great Lakes to
AND
of all cargo transported on the Great Lakes, according to government data.
==1NC Resource Wars Shell== 

No impact to resource wars – decline will spur cooperation, not war
Bennett and Nordstrom, 2K – department of political science at Penn State

(D Scott and Timothy, The Journal of Conflict Resolution, 44:1, “Foreign policy substitutability and internal economic problems in enduring rivalries”, ProQuest, WEA)
Conflict settlement is also a distinct route to dealing with internal problems that leaders in
AND
of Soviet Socialist Republics could no longer compete economically with the United States.

Resource scarcity won’t cause war – studies prove.
Salehyan 07 assistant professor of political science at the University of North Texas [Idean Salehyan, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, August 2007, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922]

First, aside from a few anecdotes, there is little systematic empirical evidence that
AND
, there is much more to armed conflict than resource scarcity and natural disasters

No resource wars – globalization
Seng, 2k [MAJ Ronnie Lim Gek Seng, “Globalisation and Its Impact on Security in Southeast Asia,” Journal of the Singapor Armed Forces, Journal V26 N3 (Jul - Sep 2000), [[http://www.mindef.gov.sg/safti/pointer/back/journals/2000/Vol26_3/3.htm]]]
The resource motivations for conquest in the past are less significant now that education,
AND
, an inclination to declare war to gain resource becomes even more remote.

No resource wars – global trading
Allouche 10 Jeremy Allouche Research Fellow in water supply and sanitation. Institute of Development Studies, Brighton, U The sustainability and resilience of global water and food systems: Political analysis of the interplay between security, resource scarcity, political systems and global trade. Food Policy (2010), doi:10.1016/j.foodpol.2010.11.013
Debates on resource scarcity and conﬂict have ignored the role of trade in both causing
AND
2009 and Aksoy and Beghin, 2005), alternatives have usually been dismissed.

No shortages – food is abundant
Poole 6 (Holly Kavana, Institute for Food and Development Policy, “12 Myths About Hunger”, Backgrounder, 12(2), Summer, 4-9, http://www.foodfirst.org/12myths)

Myth 1: Not Enough Food to Go Around Reality: Abundance, not scarcity
AND
right now. Many are net exporters of food and other agricultural products.

Democracy solves the impact
Salehyan 7 (Idean, Professor of Political Science – University of North Texas, “The New Myth About Climate Change”, Foreign Policy, Summer, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=3922)
To be sure, resource scarcity and environmental degradation can lead to social frictions.
AND
at providing public goods such as clean air and water to their citizens.
==1NC US Recession Good Shell== 
U Bigger and harder economic collapse inevitable in the long term – double dip recession key to structural reforms
Caw, ’11 [5/11/11, CAW, Canadian Autoworkers Union, “Financial Regulatory Reform Still Needed to Avoid Similar Recession”, http://www.caw.ca/en/10256.htm]

Financial reform coming out of the great recession has been very weak and totally insufficient
AND
presidential election could cost more than $1 billion dollars for each party.

Recessions are inevitable – the longer the period of stability – the greater the inevitable collapse
Mihm ‘09
professor of history at the University of Georgia (September 13, Stephen, The Boston Globe, “Why Capitalism Fails”, Google)
Instead, Minsky drew his own, far darker, lessons from Keynes’s landmark writings
AND
economy, his predictions started to look a lot like a road map.

Economic recession key to innovation—consensus of top economists
Florida, ‘10 [Richard Florida is Senior Editor at The Atlantic and Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the University of Toronto. “Start-Ups Surge in the Great Reset”, May 21 2010, http://www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2010/05/start-ups-surge-in-the-great-reset/57052/]
Economic crises like the current one have devastating economic and social costs, but they
AND
economy begins to recover, ushering in powerful new waves of technological change.

That’s key to make growth sustainable—America is shifting to a new knowledge economy but sustained periods of low growth are key—stimulus is irrelevant
Florida, ’10 [8/12/10, Richard Florida is the Senior Editor at The Atlantic, Director of the Martin Prosperity Institute and Professor of Business and Creativity at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, previously held professorships at George Mason University and Carnegie Mellon University and taught as a visiting professor at Harvard and MIT, holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, The Roadmap to a High-Speed Recovery,” http://www.tnr.com/print/article/economy/76961/richard-florida-reset-recovery-economy-future]
But now we find ourselves having the wrong debate—about whether a stimulus is
AND
work at PARC, realized their potential, and put the pieces together.

Recession based innovation key to soft power
Wei, ’12 [Ran Wei (China Daily), 2012-03-06, “The Great Recession's silver lining”, http://www.chinadaily.com.cn/usa/2012-03/06/content_14766712.htm]
The ongoing recession in the United States was named the Great Recession, a parallel
AND
provides fertile ground for innovative products like iPhones and innovators like Steve Jobs.

Soft power solves prolif, terrorism, disease, the environment, and resolves Afghanistan and Iraq
Stanley 7
[Elizabeth, of Sandia National Laboratories, “International perceptions of U.S. Nuclear Policy” http://www.prod.sandia.gov/cgi-bin/techlib/access-control.pl/2007/070903.pdf]
Such reputation effects can have significant impact in terms of gaining international cooperation in addressing
AND
multi-lateral cooperation that will be necessary to address such threats effectively.

===2NC Link Wall=== 

E) Economic scarcity key
Vossoughi, ’12 [“The Silver Lining to Scarcity: It Drives Innovation”, Sohrab Vossoughi is founder and President of Ziba Design. Harvard Business Review, http://blogs.hbr.org/cs/2012/03/the_silver_lining_to_scarcity.html, 3/1/12]
When times are good, businesses tend to stick with what's working. "It's
AND
one of the finest learning opportunities an innovation-driven business can have.

===2NC AT Soft Power Fails=== 
Their authors are wrong – whether or not soft power can be measured or used QUANTITATIVELY is irrelevant – softpower sets the underlying framework for international relations and enables us to avoid the negative effects of hegemony.
Donnelly 03 – (Thomas, AEI, defense and security policy analyst, is the director of the Center for Defense Studies, “Brave New World,” http://www.aei.org/outlook/16710 )

The theory has been given perhaps its fullest exposition by Joseph Nye of the Kennedy
AND
hands of the United States] as an evanescent 'moment' is profoundly mistaken."

US diplomacy is awesome and produces results.
Dickey 10 – (2010, Christopher, Paris Bureau Chief and Middle East Regional Editor for Newsweek Magazine, member of the Council on Foreign Relations, where he was formerly an Edward R. Murrow Press Fellow; of the Overseas Press Club of America; and of the Anglo-American Press Association of Paris, “Not Dead Yet,” http://www.newsweek.com/2010/12/05/not-dead-yet.html)

One of the great ironies of the latest WikiLeaks dump, in fact, is
AND
for the men and women of the U.S. Foreign Service!”

==1NC Trade Shell== 
No impact to trade—

A) Trade does not solve war—there’s no correlation between trade and peace
MARTIN, MAYER, AND THOENIG 2008 (Phillipe, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, and Centre for Economic Policy Research; Thierry MAYER, University of Paris 1 Pantheon—Sorbonne, Paris School of Economics, CEPII, and Centre for Economic Policy Research, Mathias THOENIG, University of Geneva and Paris School of Economics, The Review of Economic Studies 75)

Does globalization pacify international relations? The “liberal” view in political science argues
AND
, even taking into account the increase in the number of sovereign states.

B) Doha proves even sudden collapse of free trade will not cause war
THE SEATTLE TIMES 7-31-2008

Economists disagree on the Doha round's potential benefits; estimates of economic gain that could
AND
U.S.-South Korea free-trade deal earlier this year.

C) Trade only pacifies some constituencies—it can’t solve in the countries with the biggest impacts
GOLDSTONE 2007 (P.R., PhD candidate in the Department of Political Science and a member of the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He is a non-resident research fellow at the Center for Peace and Security Studies, Georgetown University, AlterNet, September 25, http://www.alternet.org/audits/62848/?page=entire)

American policymakers should beware claims of globalization's axiomatic pacifying effects. Trade creates vested interests
AND
is that in particular instances it may prove no more than a placebo.

==1NC Trade Bad== 
Multilateral trade weakens ties between proximate countries – causes conflicts to escalate
Thoma- Economics Prof, U of Oregon- ‘7
Mark, Trade Liberalization and War, July, http://economistsview.typepad.com/economistsview/2007/07/trade-liberaliz.html
Globalisation is by construction an increase in both bilateral and multilateral trade flows. What
AND
economic ties, may therefore be a necessary political counterbalance to economic globalisation.

(__) Protectionism inevitable
Mattoo – World Bank Economist – 1/6
Aaditya, The World Must Go Beyond Doha, http://www.iie.com/publications/opeds/oped.cfm?ResearchID=1089
As the financial crisis has morphed into a crisis in the real economy, the
AND
countries adopted in past recessions, are now employed by many developing countries.

==1NC Trade (v. Climate Hardening)== 
No internal link to trade—the plan is one of many factors
WTO and UNEP, 1ac ev, 9 (World Trade Organization and United Nations Environment Programme WTO and UNEP, “Trade and Climate Change” http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/booksp_e/trade_climate_change_e.pdf, ZBurdette)

Activities focused on adapting to climate change are more difficult to define and measure than
AND
; and research into, development and deployment of drought-resistant crops.

They don’t solve the transportation infrastructure they say is key to trade—21 warrants
AGC, 1ac ev, 11 (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf, ZBurdette)

Our recommendations include: Eliminate Transportation Spending Programs that Are Not Truly Federal Since the
AND
is estimated to cost $20 billion in the first five years alone.


===2NC Protectionism Inevitable=== 
Free trade low and collapse inevitable – China proves.
Alibaba News 10/23/08 [China Worries Downturn May Spur Protectionism, http://news.alibaba.com/article/detail/asia/100015827-1-wsja%252810%252F23%2529-china-worries-downturn-may.html]
BEIJING -- With the world's major economies headed toward recession, China is starting to
AND
to explain its eagerness to complete the current round of global trade negotiations.
=Environment= 
==1NC Generic Shell== 
Environment has small if any impact on conflicts – Prefer this evidence. It indicts their authors and has empirical data.
Jack Goldstone 02, prof. of public policy, George Mason, Population and Security: How Demographic Change Can Lead to Violent Conflict, Journal of International Affairs, Fall2002, Vol. 56 Ebsco

Homer-Dixon provoked a great deal of controversy and concern with his claim that
AND
in international trade, no direct impact of environmental variables could be found.

Environmental catastrophes are hype and lies – Statistics go our way.
Dutton 01 - prof of philosophy @ U of Canterbury [Dennis Dutton. “Greener Thank You Think. ‘The Skeptical Environmentalist: Measuring the Real State of the World' by Bjorn Lomborg.” The Washington Post. October 21, 2001.]

That the human race faces environmental problems is unquestionable. That environmental experts have regularly
AND
typographical errors had been absorbed unchallenged into the folklore of environmental disaster scenarios.

The environment is resilient – It has withstood ridiculous amounts of destruction.
Easterbrook 95, Distinguished Fellow, Fullbright Foundation (Gregg, A Moment on Earth pg 25) MI

In the aftermath of events such as Love Canal or the Exxon Valdez oil spill
AND
are pinpricks compared to forces of the magnitude nature is accustomed to resisting.

==1NC Air Pollution Shell== 
Air pollution has tons of causes – Plan fails.
Brook et al 04 M.D. and several other doctors writing for Circulation magazine from the American Heart Association [Circulation magazine Robert D. Brook, “Air Pollution and the Cardiovascular Disease” June 1, 2004, http://circ.ahajournals.org/cgi/content/full/109/21/2655#SEC1/] k ward

A brief description of several individual air pollutants is provided first for background. A
AND
(eg, iron, copper, nickel, zinc, and vanadium).

Air pollution has no negative impact – Multiple studies prove. Plus, their evidence relies on media hype. Err neg.
Schwartz 03 Scholar @ Competitive Enterprise Institute [Joel Schwartz, “Particulate Air Pollution: weighing the risks” April http://cei.org/pdf/3452.pdf/] Kevin W. Prep ‘11

PM and other air pollutants have been declining for decades. Current trends in vehicle
AND
omitting information on actual air pollution levels, trends, and risks.141

==1NC Biodiversity Shell== 
Small-scale extinction good – encourages evolution and environmental stability.
Boulter ’02, Michael, Prof, Paleobiology, Natural History Museum and U of East London; launched Fossil Record 2; editor, Paleontological Association; secretary, Int’l Organization of Paleobotany; UK rep, Int’l Union of Biological Sciences (“Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man,” p. 170-1)

The same trend of long-drawn-out survival of the final relicts has
AND
that it brings forward the extinctions of a whole selection of vulnerable organisms.

Absent minor extinctions, total extinction would occur.
Boulter ’02, Michael, Prof, Paleobiology, Natural History Museum and U of East London; launched Fossil Record 2; editor, Paleontological Association; secretary, Int’l Organization of Paleobotany; UK rep, Int’l Union of Biological Sciences (“Extinction: Evolution and the End of Man,” p. 182-4)

The system of life on Earth behaves in a similar way for all its measurable
AND
towards greater complexity, until bits of the system reach a critical edge.

No offense – Biodiversity loss slow and instability inevitable, but simple ecosystems more stable – no value to added biodiversity.
Heath ’99, Jim, Dec 1999 (“Why save orchids under threat?,” http://www.orchidsaustralia.com/whysave.htm)

We’ve all read about the imperatives of biodiversity, the cancer-cures that may
AND
molecular biology gives much better odds than spending the money on saving species.

Humans are isolated from the environment by technology – no mass extinction in the past has been caused by species
Powers, August 9, 2002 Lawrence W., Professor of Natural Sciences Oregon Institute of Technology “Humans, Alas, May Survive the Next Mass Extinction”
Mass extinctions appear to result from major climatic changes or catastrophes, such as asteroid
AND
mourns we will no longer behold vanish before our distant descendants' eyes.

==1NC Deforestation Shell== 
Deforestation doesn’t cause extinctions.
Bjorn Lomborg 04, Professor Political Science, University of Aarhus (Denmark), 2004, The skeptical environmentalist: measuring the real state of the world, p. 255
As we saw in the above chapter on forests, about 86 percent of the
AND
—“relatively few of these species are likely to become extinct by 2015.”

Forests are resilient.
Matt Ridley 01, chairman of the International Centre for Life, former zoology researcher at Oxford, May 8, 2001, Prince Philip Lecture to the Royal Society of Arts, “Technology and the environment: the case for optimism,” http://www.agbioworld.org/newsletter_wm/index.php?caseid=archive&newsid=1073
What is always getting worse, apparently, is the future. Predictions remain pessimistic
AND
Canada due to acid rain,’ concluded the official, independent study.

Forests are not key to oxygen.
Bjorn Lomborg 04, Professor Political Science, University of Aarhus (Denmark), 2004, The skeptical environmentalist: measuring the real state of the world, p. 115
If a considered political decision is to be made about how much forest we want
AND
, the process would consume less than 1 percent of the atmosphere’s oxygen.

Brazil is worng
Bjorn Lomborg 04, Professor Political Science, University of Aarhus (Denmark), 2004, The skeptical environmentalist: measuring the real state of the world, p. 255
As we saw in the above chapter on forests, about 86 percent of the
AND
—“relatively few of these species are likely to become extinct by 2015.”
==1NC Disease Shell== 
Disease are short term – They evolve to be benign.
AMNH 98 The American Museum of Natural History “How did Hyperdisease cause extinctions?” http://www.amnh.org/science/biodiversity/extinction/Day1/disease/Bit2.html
It is well known that lethal diseases can have a profound effect on species' population
AND
be maintained within the host population, thus ensuring the pathogen's ultimate survival.

2. No terminal impact – Too fast or too slow.
The Independent 03 “Future Tense: Is Mankind Doomed?” http://www.commondreams.org/headlines03/0725-04.htm
Maybe - though plenty of experienced graduate students could already have a stab. But
AND
. As scares go, this one is ideal - overblown and unrealistic.
==1NC Meltdowns Shell== 
No meltdown wouldn’t cause an extinction
Kearny ’87 (Cresson H. Kearny research engineer at Oak Ridge Labaratory 1987, Nuclear Survival Skills,)
Myth: Fallout radiation from a nuclear war would poison the air and all parts
AND
borne out and continue to be borne out. There’s been no change.


No risk of reactor meltdown
UIC 7 (Uranium Information Center, “Safety of Nuclear Power Reactors”, Nuclear Issues Briefing Paper, 14,
http://www.uic.com.au/nip14.htm)

Those responsible for nuclear power technology in the west devoted extraordinary effort to ensuring that
AND
a nuclear safety inspectorate and all of these work closely with the IAEA.
==1NC Methane Explosion Shell== 
No methane accidents – companies are cautious

Adam ‘5 (Dave Adam, science correspondent, The Guardian (UK), “US in race to unlock new energy source,” 4-3-2005,http://www.guardian.co.uk/society/2005/apr/04/usnews.science)
Its new project will see the drilling vessel Uncle John spend about a month in
AND
is a very important issue, tied to our future national energy security."

No methane leads – hydrates are too deep

Rennie ‘11 (John Rennie, “Energy from Methane Hydrates: Better to Burn Out than Fade Away,” The Gleaming Retort, 6-1-2011,http://blogs.plos.org/retort/2011/06/01/energy-from-methane-hydrates-better-to-burn-out-than-fade-away/)
Estimates of how much methane is tied up in hydrates globally vary widely but are
AND
10 to 15 more years, to make much headway against that competition.
==1NC Monoculture Shell== 
Genetic diversity is resilient.
Harris 01 [Jonathan, Tufts University Global Development and Environment Institute, A Survey of Sustainable Development, p 132-3]
Why Has the World not Collapsed Long Ago? Given the possible instability of predator
AND
is not unlimited, and human adaptability is limited by specific environmental contexts.
==1NC Ocean Acidification Shell== 
No impact to ocean acidficiation – marine life is resilient and there studies are incomplete
Hendriks, et. Al, ’10 [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DHendriks,%2520I.E.%26authorID%3D8646599000%26md5%3Db1126e5dafa84cc3aed0ba078390ee6d&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_userid=29621&md5=b73b5f6b37cfb25ec6754b5bbb5f04ed|I.E. Hendriks]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DDuarte,%2520C.M.%26authorID%3D35271799200%26md5%3Dc77907b022fa915f0a14e754e6aa66b1&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_userid=29621&md5=0f0bb4215cd153e9571ad9628b306b19|C.M. Duarte]][[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science/article/pii/S027277140900537X#implicit0|a]]</span>, and <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DAlvarez,%2520M.%26authorID%3D25959834200%26md5%3D6432778b0f4354160b5b45a451551519&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_userid=29621&md5=55871851bee9d4ea01c08508ea7b6efb|M. Álvarez]][[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science/article/pii/S027277140900537X#implicit0|a]]</span>, Department of Global Change Research. IMEDEA (CSIC-UIB), Instituto Mediterráneo de Estudios Avan, “Vulnerability of marine biodiversity to ocean acidification: A meta-analysis” <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science/journal/02727714|Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%236776%232010%23999139997%231578281%23FLA%23&_cdi=6776&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=29621&md5=6093e28e0040ace4b92c45f2d19d9266|Volume 86, Issue 2]]</span>, 20 January 2010, Pages 157-164
In summary, our analysis shows that marine biota is more resistant to ocean acidiﬁcation
AND
acidiﬁcation on organism processes as shown by the meta-analysis presented here..

And, their arguments are flawed – a lack scientific evidence creates an artificial bias towards ocean acidification
Hendriks and Duartea, ’10 [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DHendriks,%2520I.E.%26authorID%3D8646599000%26md5%3Db1126e5dafa84cc3aed0ba078390ee6d&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_userid=29621&md5=b73b5f6b37cfb25ec6754b5bbb5f04ed|I.E. Hendriks]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=RedirectURL&_method=outwardLink&_partnerName=27983&_origin=article&_zone=art_page&_linkType=scopusAuthorDocuments&_targetURL=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.scopus.com%2Fscopus%2Finward%2Fauthor.url%3FpartnerID%3D10%26rel%3D3.0.0%26sortField%3Dcited%26sortOrder%3Dasc%26author%3DDuarte,%2520C.M.%26authorID%3D35271799200%26md5%3Dc77907b022fa915f0a14e754e6aa66b1&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_userid=29621&md5=0f0bb4215cd153e9571ad9628b306b19|C.M. Duarte]][[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science/article/pii/S027277140900537X#implicit0|a]]</span>, Department of Global Change Research. IMEDEA (CSIC-UIB), Instituto Mediterráneo de Estudios Avan, , Ocean acidification: Separating evidence from judgment – A reply to Dupont et al., <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science/journal/02727714|Estuarine, Coastal and Shelf Science]]</span>, <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.sciencedirect.com.ezproxy.baylor.edu/science?_ob=PublicationURL&_tockey=%23TOC%236776%232010%23999109997%232255765%23FLA%23&_cdi=6776&_pubType=J&view=c&_auth=y&_acct=C000003958&_version=1&_urlVersion=0&_userid=29621&md5=eb2ae0bdcde2b8bfc6565c9cc0b6c866|Volume 89, Issue 2]]</span>, 20 September 2010

The paradigm that “ocean acidiﬁcation will be a major threat for marine species and
AND
reviewers and editors should ensure that conclusions are supported by the results presented.
==1NC Pesticides Shell== 
Global use makes it inevitable
Fishel 01 (associate professor, Agronomy Department, and director, Pesticide Information Office; Florida Cooperative Extension Service, Institute of Food and Agricultural Sciences, University of Florida. “Pesticide Trends Use in the U.S.: Global comparison”, http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/PI180)
World pesticide amount used exceeded 5.0 billion pounds in 2000 and 2001.
AND
and 30% of world fungicides and other pesticide amount used, respectively.

==1NC Plankton Shell== 
Non-unique – Phytoplankton levels have declined on balance.
NASA Earth Observatory 02 “Satellites See Big Changes Since 1980s in Key Element of Ocean's Food Chain” August 8, http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Newsroom/view.php?id=22584

Since the early 1980s, ocean phytoplankton concentrations
AND
decrease in phytoplankton globally.

Plankton are resilient – Empirically proven
Messer 06 Science Writer for the University of Pennsylvania and Member of the National Association of Science Writers [A’ndrea Elyse, “Phytoplankton bounce back from abrupt climate change” Biology News February 16 [[http://news.bio-medicine.org/biology-news-3/Phytoplankton-bounce-back-from-abrupt-climate-change-8096-1/]]]
The majority of tiny marine plants weathered the abrupt climate changes that occurred in Earth's
AND
with selectivity and most of the organisms bounce right back after the change."


==1NC Wetlands Shell== 
A. Sewage.
Jeantheau 05 [Mark, “Atomic Cannonball off the High Dive” Grinning Planet, 9/6, 2005, http://www.grinningplanet.com/2005/09-06/water-pollution-causes-article.htm]

In developing countries, an estimated 90% of wastewater is discharged directly into rivers
AND
, even in what is supposedly the most advanced country in the world.

B. Personal care products.
Jeantheau 05 [Mark, “Atomic Cannonball off the High Dive” Grinning Planet, 9/6, 2005, http://www.grinningplanet.com/2005/09-06/water-pollution-causes-article.htm]

Whenever we use personal-care products and household cleaning products—whether they be
AND
a remnant of detergent, is known to disrupt fish reproduction and growth.

=Hegemony= 
==1NC Heg Fails Shell== 
Hegemony fails—lack of legitimacy means material power is decoupled from effective influence
Maher, ’11 [Winter 2011, Richard Maher, Ph.D. candidate in the Political Science department at Brown University, “The Paradox of American Unipolarity: Why the United States May Be Better Off in a Post-Unipolar World,” Orbis, Vol. 55, No. 1, p. 53-68]
And yet, despite this material preeminence, the United States sees its political and
AND
how best to position itself in the “post-unipolar” world.

Hegemonic stability theory is academic garbage—their evidence relies on policy hubris
Fettweis, ’11 [September, 2011, Christopher J. Fettweis, Department of Political Science, Tulane University, “The Superpower as Superhero: Hubris in U.S. Foreign Policy”, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1902154]
First, the hegemonic-stability argument shows the classic symptom of hubris: It
AND
They will participate at times in our adventures, but minimally and reluctantly.

Hegemony is over—the rise of China and internal factors create feedback loops that collapse its leadership
Layne, ’12 [4/26/12, Christopher Layne is the Professor & Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A & M University, “The End of Pax Americana: How Western Decline Became Inevitable”, http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2012/04/the-end-of-pax-americana-how-western-decline-became-inevitable/256388/?single_page=true,
The signs of the emerging new world order are many. First, there is
AND
the United States and designed to privilege American interests, norms and values.


==1NC Soft Power Shell== 
Diplomatic overstretch makes soft power useless
Xinhua 9 [“U.S. power diplomacy loses steam in first year,” 12/18, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2009-12/19/content_12671848.htm]
The power diplomacy of the United States
AND
to list just a few hotspots where Americans had been busy mending rather than making diplomacy.

No impact to soft power --- resentment doesn’t translate into policy changes
Mandelbaum 6 [Michael, professor of American foreign policy at Johns Hopkins University, “David’s Friend Goliath,” Jan/Feb, Foreign Policy]
Nor is the world likely to express much gratitude to the United States any time
AND
as free riders, which is an arrangement no government will lightly abandon.
==1NC Retrenchment Good== 
Retrenchment is good—overwhelming historical data proves there will be no transition conflict and accepting relative declines in power is key to overall leadership and avoids foreign entanglements
Parent and MacDonald, ’11 [Joseph M. Parent is Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami. Paul K. MacDonald is Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College “The Wisdom of Retrenchment: America Must Cut Back to Move Forward”, Foreign Affairs, November/December 2011]
Even if a policy of retrenchment were possible to implement, would it work?
AND
would also allow the United States to restore some luster to its leadership.

Retrenchment now is key to hegemony—only politically sustainable option, otherwise US leadership is ineffective
Kupchan and Trubowitz, ’07 [Charles A. Kupchan is Professor of International Affairs at Georgetown University and Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and Peter L. Trubowitz is Associate Professor of Government at the University of Texas at Austin and Senior Fellow at the Robert S. Strauss Center for International Security and Law., “Dead Center” International Security, Vol. 32, No. 2 (Fall 2007), pp. 7–44]
A strategy of judicious retrenchment may not be the preferred course of neoconservative Republicans or
AND
but also restores the political equilibrium necessary to sustain a coherent national strategy.

===2NC Decoupling=== 
Hegemony is a myth—absolute power doesn’t translate into influence—overwhelming empirics go negative—star this card***
Doran, ‘09 [Charles F., Andrew W. Mellon Prof. of International Relations, Director of the Global Theory and History Program, Director of the Center for Canadian Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., “Fooling Oneself: The Mythology of Hegemony” International Studies Review, Vol. 11.1, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2486.2008.01832.x/pdf]
Yet, led by a groundswell of neo-conservative foreign policy thought (Krauthamer
AND
diplomacy, fooling other people is commonplace. But fooling oneself is ludicrous.

===2NC Strategy Shift=== 
Even if they win hegemony persists, it won’t be effective absent political solvency
Kupchan 2011 [Charles A., professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and Whitney Shepardson Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, The false promise of unipolarity: constraints on the exercise of American power, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Volume 24, Number 2, June 2011]
A final chink in the armour of Brooks and Wohlforth concerns their disregard of domestic
AND
choices Americans may make about when and how to deploy their national power.

Even if we do exercise it, the perception of low public confidence means other countries think we won’t exercise it—collapses our conventional deterrent
Gerson, ‘9—Michael S. Gerson is a research analyst in the Strategic Initiatives Group, where his research focuses on nuclear and conventional deterrence, nuclear strategy, arms control, missile defense, and WMD proliferation [“Conventional Deterrence in the Second Nuclear Age”. Parameters, US Army War College Quarterly, Autumn 2009. http://www.carlisle.army.mil/usawc/parameters/Articles/09autumn/gerson.pdf]
One of the key challenges facing the United States in future conventional deterrence contingencies is
AND
or prevented by the political pressures associated with America’s alleged aversion to casualties.


===2NC Legitimacy=== 
Hegemony is a myth—absolute power doesn’t translate into influence—overwhelming empirics go negative—star this card***
Doran, ‘09 [Charles F., Andrew W. Mellon Prof. of International Relations, Director of the Global Theory and History Program, Director of the Center for Canadian Studies @ Johns Hopkins U., “Fooling Oneself: The Mythology of Hegemony” International Studies Review, Vol. 11.1, http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-2486.2008.01832.x/pdf]
Yet, led by a groundswell of neo-conservative foreign policy thought (Krauthamer
AND
diplomacy, fooling other people is commonplace. But fooling oneself is ludicrous.


===2NC No Stability Theory=== 
Khalilzad exaggerates claims to justify heg, prefer our evidence
Layne, ’97 [Summer 1997, Christopher Layne is a Visiting Professor at the Naval Postgraduate School From Preponderance to Offshore Balancing” International Security,]
The security/interdependence nexus results in the exaggeration of threats to American strategic interests
AND
potential adversaries—that it will uphold its security obligations in core areas.

No lashout – cling theories are wrong
Parent and McDonald 11 (Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Miami, Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Wellesley College, "Graceful Decline? The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment," International Security, volume 35, issue 4, pages 7-44, Spring 2011, http://belfercenter.ksg.harvard.edu/files/ISEC_a_00034-MacDonald_proof2.pdf SL)
For Gilpin and Copeland, retrenchment is a policy that states should avoid. Other
AND
relative decline that one should expect partisan rancor and sectoral rivalry to recede.


===2NC AT Liberalism=== 
Their liberalism arguments are wrong--
a. Its collapsing now and US isn’t key
Kupchan 2011 [June 2011, Charles A., professor of international affairs at Georgetown University and Whitney Shepardson Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, The false promise of unipolarity: constraints on the exercise of American power, Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Volume 24, Number 2]
These examples aside, Brooks and Wohlforth also fail to address another important pathway through
AND
and toleration of political diversity rather than the normative hegemony of the West.

===2NC AT Lashout=== 
Retrenchment husbands US power—doesn’t collapse it
Sapolsky et al., ’09 [Fall 2009, Harvey M. Sapolsky is a professor of public policy and organization at MIT. Benjamin H. Friedman is a research fellow in defense and homeland security studies at Cato Institute. Eugene Gholz is an associate professor of public affairs at the University of Texas at Austin. Daryl G. Press is an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College. “Restraining Order: For Strategic Modesty”, http://www.worldaffairsjournal.org/articles/2009-Fall/full-Sapolsky-etal-Fall-2009.html]
The first virtue of a restraint strategy is that it husbands American power. It
AND
match our foreign objectives to our abilities, and put domestic needs first.

US will accept its new role peacefully – no backlash
Charles A. Kupchan Fall 1999 World Policy Journal "Life after pax Americana"
The bad news is that the global stability that unipolarity has engendered will be jeopardized
AND
of competitive balancing and regional rivalries in the wake of an American retrenchment.

No lashout
MacDonald and Parent 2011 (Paul K. and Joseph M., Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami, International Security, Graceful Decline?; The Surprising Success of Great Power Retrenchment, Spring, lexis)
Implications for Sino-U.S. Relations Our findings are directly relevant to
AND
readily identify and eliminate extraneous burdens without exposing vulnerabilities or exciting domestic populations.

===2NC Turns China Relations=== 
Heg kills China relations – divergent interests.
Xinbo 2000
Wu Xinbo, Visiting Fellow, Center for Northeast Asian Policy Studies, September 2000 (“U.S. Security Policy in Asia: Implications for China-U.S. Relations”, http://www.brookings.edu/fp/cnaps/papers/2000_wu.htm)
Three major factors have constantly troubled Sino-U.S. relations in the
AND
not just on one single country and a set of bilateral security alliances.
==1NC Competitiveness Shell== 
Loss of competitiveness won’t allow rival powers overthrow unipolarity- their progress is unsustainable
Salam Research Associate CFR ‘9 (Reihan-, Jan. 21, The American Scene, “Robert Pape Is Overheated”, http://www.theamericanscene.com/2009/01/21/robert-pape-is-overheated)
Pape spends a lot of time demonstrating that U.S. economic output represents
AND
means that unipolar military power is less valuable than it was in 1945.
===2NC AT Competitiveness (HSR)=== 
Their competitiveness internal link is wrong—education is key not HSR—this card is nasty
Saviano, ’11 [February 11, 2011, Nino Saviano, “It's Investment In People, Not High-Speed Rail That Will Keep America Competitive”, [[http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/02/11/investment-people-high-speed-rail-america-competitive/#ixzz1ykIZdz1V|http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2011/02/11/investment-people-high-speed-rail-america-competitive/#ixzz1ykIZdz1V]]]
The competitiveness of America’s economy has been recently placed at the forefront of the policy
AND
capital and innovators of tomorrow. Only they can ensure America’s future competitiveness.
==1NC Tech Leadership Shell== 
No tech leadership decline now – we are first
NAP – 07
NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES, NATIONAL ACADEMY OF ENGINEERING, AND INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES, RISING ABOVE THE GATHERING STORM Energizing and Employing America for a Brighter Economic Future, http://www.nap.edu/openbook.php?record_id=11463&page=R1
Central to prosperity over the last 50 years has been our massive investment in science
AND
after Finland) in overall competitiveness and first in technology and innovation.5

(Lack of tech infrastructure dooms any gain from the plan
Diana Farrell is deputy director of the National Economic Council and Thomas Kalil is deputy director for policy of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and senior advisor for science, technology and innovation of the National Economic Council – ‘10
United States A Strategy for Innovation, Issues in Science & Technology; Spring2010, Vol. 26 Issue 3, p41-50
Infrastructure. The nation's physical and technological infrastructure has been neglected, threatening the ability
AND
and outages cost individuals and businesses at least $80 billion each year.

=International= 

==1NC ATS Shell== 
ATS is resilient
Joyner 98 (Christopher C., Professor of Government and Foreign Service – Georgetown University and Senior Fellow – Institute for Antarctic and Southern Ocean Studies, Governing the Frozen Commons, p. 164)
The ATS has proven politically resilient and legally flexible in adapting to and accommodating shifting
AND
exploit minerals or hydrocarbons in the Antarctic appears at least several decades away.

Third parties make the impact inevitable
Stoller 95 (Paul, Attorney – Meyer Hendricks & Bivens, “Protecting The White Continent: Is The Antarctic Protocol Mere Words Or Real Action?”, Arizona Journal of International and Comparative Law, Spring, 12 Ariz. J. Int'l & Comp. Law 335, Lexis)
Like any other contract, a treaty cannot bind a third party. 185 Thus
AND
are unlikely to permit Antarctica to be taken from their exclusive control. 188
==1NC Climate Leadership Bad== 
Turn – US environmental leadership collapses free trade, turns environmental progress
Anderson and Grewell, ‘01 [Terry Anderson is a professor of economics @ Montana State and J. Bishop Grewell is a Research Associate @ the PERC, 2 Chi. J. Int'l L. 427, Lexis]
The unintended consequences of punishment for violating environmental agreements with trade restrictions should be considered
AND
is shortsighted and misses the bigger picture of long-run environmental consequences.

Protecionism is the worst impact – causes shooting wars and extinction
Miller, President of the International Society for Individual Liberty, 88 (Vincent H., “Free Trade or Protectionism? - The Case Against Trade Restrictions,” http://www.isil.org/resources/lit/free-trade-protectionism.html)
The losers? You and all other ordinary consumers. Your freedom is being trampled
AND
, and Trade Advisor to the White House Member of ISIL's Board of Directors

Climate leadership is not key to overall US leadership
Falkner 5 – Robert Falkner, Department of International Relations, London School of Economics, 2005, "American Hegemony and the Global Environment," International Studies Review, Volume 7, Issue 4, pages 585-599

Second, there is no simple and straightforward correlation between America's hegemonic position and the
AND
theory that can explain the direction and evolution of US foreign environmental policy.

==1NC Cosmopolitanism Shell== 
Evolutionary theory means that realism is inevitable – Nations will act in their interests, preventing cosmopolitanism.
Thayer 04, Associate Professor of Political Science at Missouri State University [Brdley A. “Darwin and International Relations” (p75-76)]

I argue that evolutionary theory also offers a fundamental cause for offensive realist behavior.
AND
to the actions of other states and as they make their own decisions.

The populations of the world hate cosmopolitanism. The plan can’t overcome it.
Goldsmith 03, Professor of Law at University of Chicago, 2003 (Jack, “Liberal democracy and cosmopolitan duty”, Stanford Law Review, Questia)

First, States are much larger. Their membership does not consist of self-
AND
State level to overcome, and the move to political institutions achieves little.
==1NC Democracy Bad== 
No empirical proof of the democratic peace – their evidence is based on a structural bias in the literature.
Layne, Professor of International Affairs at the George Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M University, 2006 (Christopher, The Peace of Illusions: American Grand Strategy from 1940 to the Present, pp.121-2)

As a theory of international politics, the democratic peace theory carries little weight.
AND
and often otherwise avoidable, friction between the United States and nondemocratic states.

Democratic peace theory is wrong - no causality
Rosato 3 (Sebastian, PhD, Asst. Professor of Political Science at the University of Notre Dame, Former Research Fellow at the International Security Program, “The Flawed Logic of Democratic Peace Theory,” Nov, American PoliSci Review Vol 97 No 4, Muse)

Democratic peace theory is probably the most powerful liberal contribution to the debate on the
AND
, it may not be caused by the democratic nature of those states.

Democracy increases conflict – unrestrained executives and war on terror.
Tim Dunne, Head of Humanities and Social Sciences at the University of Exeter, 2009 (International Relations, p.113)

The succession of democratic wars – from the interventions for justice in the 1990s to
AND
in international affairs, we are exposed to the limits of liberalism itself.
Democracy increases war – democratic regime change spurs global conflict.
Henderson, Associate Professor of Political Science at Wayne State University, 2002 (Errol, Democracy and War: The End of an Illusion? pp.68-70)

My findings refute the monadic level DPP, which suggests that democracies are more peaceful
AND
a sanguine view of the prospects for peace with a democratic enlargement strategy.

No democratic peace – spread of democracy will increase intra-bloc conflict – their evidence doesn’t assume changes to the international system.
Erik Gartzke and Alex Weisiger, Associate Professor of Political Science at University of California San Diego and Assistant Professor of Political Science at University of Pennsylvania, March 15, 2010, “Permanent Friends? Dynamic Difference and the Democratic Peace,” http://dss.ucsd.edu/~egartzke/papers/impermanent_012010.pdf
We can go farther in assessing implications of regime similarity in varied circumstances. As
AND
may increasingly find that they are unable to justify glossing over their differences.

Democracy causes terrorism – transitions increase the risk.
Goldsmith, Professor of Management at the University of Massachusetts Boston, 2008 (Arthur, International Security, Fall, Lexis Academic)

Terrorism is the third threat to world peace that the spread of democracy is supposed
AND
, are usually high-income nations such as the United States. 35

Democratization increases terrorism – intergroup competition motivates violence.
Erica Chenoweth, Assistant Professor of Government at Wesleyan University, 2010, Journal of Politics, accessed via Cambridge Journals online

The empirical analysis supports the claim that terrorist groups within democracies tend to compete with
AND
borders, however, the competitive nature of democracy remains beyond anyone's control.


Terror attack causes retaliation and extinction
Ayson 10 (Robert, professor of strategic studies and director of the center for Strategic Studies: New Zealand at the Victoria University of Wellington, “After a Terrorist Nuclear Attack: Envisaging Catalytic Effects,” Online Mkoo)
A terrorist nuclear attack, and even the use of nuclear weapons in response by
AND
for the terrorists. This might not help the chances of nuclear restraint.

===2NC Turns Environment=== 
Transitions turn their environment arguments – transitional democracies increase environmental destruction.
Matthews and Mock, Senior Associate at the World Resources Institute and Senior Editor of the World Resources Report, 2003 (Emily and Gregory, “More Democracy, Better Environment?” World Resources 2002-2004, July, http://earthtrends.wri.org/features/view_feature.php?fid=45&theme=10)

A further consideration is that the transition from autocracy to democracy is often marked by
AND
fall of President Suharto in 1998 (FWI and GFW 2002:xi).

Democracy causes deforestation – politicians give in to land demands.
Midlarsky, Department of Political Science at Rutgers, 1998 (Manus, Journal of Peace Research, May, p.352-3)

This finding of a positive association between democracy and deforestation is far more likely to
AND
national governments, and these forests then are 'managed' by the local authorities.

Democracy doesn’t solve the environment – studies prove.
Midlarsky, Department of Political Science at Rutgers, 1998 (Manus, Journal of Peace Research, May, p.358)

The first and most obvious conclusion is that there is no uniform relationship between democracy
AND
President Gore who have trumpeted the virtues of democracy in protecting the environment.

Democracy doesn’t solve the environment – empirics prove that citizen concern doesn’t translate into effective action.
Matthews and Mock, Senior Associate at the World Resources Institute and Senior Editor of the World Resources Report, 2003 (Emily and Gregory, “More Democracy, Better Environment?” World Resources 2002-2004, July, http://earthtrends.wri.org/features/view_feature.php?fid=45&theme=10)

Rather, democratic institutions, levels of wealth, and citizen demands for environmental quality
AND
, environmental quality will likely improve in some respects but worsen in others.

===2NC Turns Genocide=== 
Democracy doesn’t solve genocide – authors like Rummel ignore counter-examples.
Mann, Professor of Sociology at UCLA, 1999 (Michael, New Left Review, May/June, http://www.newleftreview.org/?view=1990)

But let us remark a quality they all share. They have justified themselves—
AND
, but it is more complex and double-edged than Rummel acknowledges.

Democracy doesn’t solve genocide – Rwanda proves.
Kaplan, contributing editor of the Atlantic, 1997 (Robert, The Atlantic, December, http://www.theatlantic.com/issues/97dec/democ.htm)

The ghosts of today we ignore -- like the lesson offered by Rwanda, where
AND
replace well-functioning chieftaincy and tribal patronage systems with foreign administrative practices.
==1NC Multilateralism== 
Multilateralism is high and inevitable – Libya
Brady ’12 [7/3/12, Kyle Brady. “Libya Shows Multilateralism is New U.S. Strategy,” http://www.policymic.com/articles/1464/libya-shows-multilateralism-is-new-u-s-strategy]
As has been widely analyzed, Colonel Muammar Gaddafi’s Libya has fallen to the persistent
AND
that will have ample chance to be tested, refined and fully institutionalized.

No legitimacy constraints.
Brooks and Wohlforth 9 – Stephen and William, Professors of Govt. @ Dartmouth, World Out of Balance, p 179
Hence, it is more productive to examine the argument on its own terms,
AND
its power to minimize any legitimacy costs associated with making and breaking rules.

Legitimacy is resilient
Brooks and Wohlforth 9 - STEPHEN G. BROOKS is Associate Professor of Government at Dartmouth College. WILLIAM C. WOHLFORTH is Daniel Webster Professor of Government and Chair of the Department of Government at Dartmouth College, “Reshaping the World Order, Foreign Affairs, Mar/Apr2009, Vol. 88, Issue 2
Of course, the ability of the United States to weather such crises of legitimacy
AND
leadership is natural under the circumstances or the best that can be expected.

US can change norms—avoid legitimacy costs.
Brooks and Wohlforth 9 – Stephen and William, Professors of Govt. @ Dartmouth, World Out of Balance, p 180-1
If the historical record is any guide, the United States has the potential to
AND
case was a system of rules shaped to address the hegemon's primary concerns." 
==1NC Prolif Shell== 
Prolif will be slow
Tepperman 9—[Jonathan, Newsweek International's first Assistant Managing Editor [now Deputy Editor], “Why Obama Should Learn to Love the Bomb” 8-29, http://www.newsweek.com/2009/08/28/why-obama-should-learn-to-love-the-bomb.html, SM]
The risk of an arms race—with, say, other Persian Gulf states
AND
be so disastrous, given the way that bombs tend to mellow behavior.

No nuclear chain reactions—empirics and exaggeration.
Potter & Mukhatzhanova 8—[William C. and Gaukhar, * Sam Nunn and Richard Lugar Professor of Nonproliferation Studies and Director of the James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies at the Monterey Institute of International Studies and ** Research Associate at the James Martin Center, “Divining Nuclear Intentions: a review essay.” International Security, Vol. 33, No. 1 [Summer 2008], pp. 139–169, Google scholar] CMR
Today it is hard to find an analyst or commentator on nuclear proliferation who is
AND
survival models offer considerable insight into that dimension of the proliferation puzzle.48

==1NC Prolif Bad Shell== 
Nuclear prolif creates incentives for de-escalation and guarantees international stability—new proliferators won’t be destabilizing—our evidence cites statistical probabilities
Asal & Beardsley, 2007
[Victor, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci.—SUNY Albany, and Kyle, Assistant Prof. Pol. Sci.—Emory U., Journal of Peace Research, “Proliferation and International Crisis Behavior”, 44:2, Sage]
Other, more optimistic, scholars see benefits to nuclear proliferation or, perhaps not
AND
plausible loss of social value commensurate with the potential gains of an attacker’.

==1NC Science Diplomacy== 
Obama is increasing his commitment to science diplomacy now
Johnson ‘10
(Jenny-, April 8, SciDev.Net, “USAID appointment boosts science diplomacy focus”, [[http://www.scidev.net/en/news/%20usaid-appointment-boosts-science-diplomacy-focus.html|http://www.scidev.net/en/news/ usaid-appointment-boosts-science-diplomacy-focus.html]])
The US government's international development agency is 
AND
with most of the money to go to resources that "meet U.S. foreign policy objectives and support Presidential initiatives".
Science diplomacy is insufficient to rebuild U.S. image and is reject by suspicious developing countries
Dickson Direction Science & Development Network.Net ‘9
(David, June 1, SciDev.Net, “Science diplomacy: a timely idea or a fashionable myth?”, [[http://scidevnet.wordpress]]. com/category/new-frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009)
Does science have a similar role in helping to meet the political challenges of today? 
AND 
those designed to boost their scientific capacities.

Scientific Diplomacy doesn’t spill over to solve conflicts
Dickson Direction Science & Development Network.Net ‘9
(David, June 2, SciDev.Net, “Science diplomacy: the case for caution”, http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/new-
frontiers-in-science-diplomacy-2009)
One of the frustrations of meetings at which scientists gather to discuss policy-related
AND
is seldom a magic wand that can secure broader cooperation where none existed before
=Middle East= 

==1NC War Shell== 
Middle East conflict won’t escalate
Maloney 7 (Suzanne, Senior Fellow – Saban Center for Middle East Policy, Steve Cook, Fellow – Council on Foreign Relations, and Ray Takeyh, Fellow – Council for Foreign Relations, “Why the Iraq War Won’t Engulf the Mideast”, International Herald Tribune, 6-28, http://www.brookings.edu/views/op-ed/maloney20070629.htm)
Yet, the Saudis, Iranians, Jordanians, Syrians, and others are very
AND
Lebanese. The civil war in Lebanon was regarded as someone else's fight.

No risk of large-scale Middle East war – They want to maintain political stability.
Takeyh et al 07, Senior Fellow for ME Studies at Council on Foreign Relations, June 28, 2007 [“Why the Iraq war won't engulf the Mideast,” http://www.cfr.org/publication/13702/why_the_iraq_war_wont_engulf_the_mideast.html)]
Yet, the Saudis, Iranians, Jordanians, Syrians, and others are very
AND
its civil strife and prevent local conflicts from enveloping the entire Middle East.
==1NC Oil Dependence Shell== 
US is decreasing foreign oil dependence
Seeking Alpha 12 5/25, “A Surprising And Promising Trend In The U.S. Economy: Sharply Declining Oil Imports,” http://seekingalpha.com/article/617371-a-surprising-and-promising-trend-in-the-u-s-economy-sharply-declining-oil-imports, AJ
We've all been hearing about all kinds of ominous developments, and certainly the last
AND
) and Conoco (COP), look very cheap at these price levels.

Actual effects irrelevant – speculators guarantee oil shocks kill economic recovery
Kahn 11 – Journalist, formerly a Pew International Journalism Fellow at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (Jeremy, 2/13/11, “Crude Reality”, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2011/02/13/crude_reality/?page=full)
For more than a month, the world has been riveted by scenes of protest
AND
analysts to predict that higher energy costs could derail America’s nascent economic recovery.

No Impact to oil shocks – most recent economic research
Kahn 11 – Journalist, formerly a Pew International Journalism Fellow at Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (Jeremy, 2/13/11, “Crude Reality”, http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2011/02/13/crude_reality/?page=full)
But a growing body of economic research suggests that this conventional view of oil shocks
AND
less sensitive to changes in crude prices overall than it was in 1973.

Plan doesn’t solve oil shocks – the rest of the world is still dependent
Lane 6/18 – editorial writer for The Washington Post, former journalism professor at Georgetown University and Princeton University (Charles, Washington Post, “‘Clean energy’ is money wasted”, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/obamas-clean-energy-strategy-is-money-wasted/2012/06/18/gJQADIpLmV_story.html)
The researchers pick apart clean-energy subsidies rationale by rationale.
Like his predecessors of both parties, Obama argues that the subsidies can help reduce dependence on foreign oil. But even with 100 percent self-sufficiency, we would be vulnerable to price shocks in the global market for this fungible commodity. Many technologies favored by current policy — wind, solar, geothermal — replace coal and natural gas, in which the United States is already self-sufficient.

Shift from Middle Eastern oil dependence now – transition to American oil sources
Ebinger 6/11/12 – An energy policy advisor to over 50 governments on restructuring their state-owned energy sectors, privatization and the creation of regulatory regimes, former professor of electricity economics at Johns Hopkins, named a "Nuclear Energy Expert" by the Nuclear Energy Institute (Charles, Brookings, “Five Major Energy Problems the Next President Has to Face”, http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2012/06/11-energy-climate-ebinger-avasarala)
However, the United States will still need to secure supplies in the midterm.
AND
. The next president must not let any of these opportunities slip away
===2NC Shift Now=== 
And, ending oil imports from OPEC means that the US will avoid competing with China, which gets most its oil imports from OPEC, and almost NONE of its oil from North America.

EIA 9-4 [September 4th, 2012, Energy Information Administration, U.S. Department of Energy, “China”, [[http://www.eia.gov/countries/cab.cfm?fips=CH]]]
The Middle East remains the largest source of China's crude oil imports, although African
AND
from Iran as a result of U.S. and EU sanctions.


Finally, our argument is the CONSENSUS POSITION: almost all of the factors that are solving for U.S. oil dependence in the status quo will persist in the long term.

Nerurkar ’12 [April 4th, 2012, Neelesh, Specialist in Energy Policy for the Congressional Research Service, “U.S. Oil Imports and Exports, Congressional Research Service Report, [[@http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R42465.pdf]]]

A consensus is emerging among energy analysts that U.S. oil imports
AND
import volumes flat, import costs may still rise if oil prices increase.
==1NC Strait of Hormuz Shell== 
No war and it won’t escalate---cooperation and no nuclear capability
Gelb 12 2/24, *Leslie H. Gelb: President Emeritus and Board Senior Fellow, “Leslie H. Gelb: The Iran-Washington Conspiracy?” http://www.thedailybeast.com/articles/2012/02/24/leslie-h-gelb-the-iran-washington-conspiracy.html, AJ
Tehran and Washington have discovered a surprising common bond: to pretend that they might
AND
five permanent members of the U.N. Security Council plus Germany).

Iran couldn’t close the Strait---US military
Queenann 12 1/3, *Gavriel Queenann is a writer for the Israeli National News, http://www.israelnationalnews.com/News/News.aspx/151368#.T0hhqXO4LVp, “Is Iran Following in Qaddafi's Footsteps?” AJ
The Strait of Hormuz is 34 miles wide at its narrowest point. Under international
AND
Iran's bombastic threats to rattle the world economy by choking off oil supplies.

Iran won’t block the straight – all talk
Zakaria ’12 [January 4th, 2012, Fareed, Editor of Newsweek, BA from Yale, PhD in pol sci, Harvard. He serves on the board of Yale University, The Council on Foreign Relations, The Trilateral Commission, and Shakespeare and Company. Named "one of the 21 most important people of the 21st Century”, “[[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/01/04/zakaria-irans-growing-state-of-desperation/|Iran’s growing state of desperation]]”, [[http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/01/04/zakaria-irans-growing-state-of-desperation/|__http://globalpublicsquare.blogs.cnn.com/2012/01/04/zakaria-irans-growing-state-of-desperation/__]]]
Tehran’s reaction to the prospect of sanctions that affect its oil exports shows its desperation
AND
coming from oil exports, it would bring the government to a standstill.
=Military= 

==1NC Airpower Shell== 
Airpower inevitable screwed by China and Russia rise
Geller 10 (Pamela, Citing Lt. General David Deputla, “AIR FORCE INTEL CHIEF: NO US AIR SUPERIORITY,” September 20th, http://atlasshrugs2000.typepad.com/atlas_shrugs/2010/09/air-force-intel-chief-no-us-air-superiority.html, EMM)

OXON HILL, Md. -- The U.S. Air Force’s former top
AND
the aerial domain is no longer ours for the taking,” Deptula said.

They massively overestimate the importance of airpower
Robert A. PAPE, 2004, Associate Professor of Political Science – University of Chicago, “The True Worth of Air Power,” Foreign Affairs, March/April, v. 83 i. 2

FOR MORE THAN A DECADE, advocates of precision air weapons have argued that wars
AND
with new precision air weapons, it now does so better than ever.

US air supremacy inevitable
Carpenter and Deputla 8 (Mace, Colonel – US Air Force and David, Brigadier General – Air Force Quadrennial Defense Review Division, “Aerospace Nations; Invest in Improving the Air Force”, Washington Times, 2-21, Lexis)

We are an aerospace nation in many ways. Our commercial air arm towers over
AND
, we must preserve our capability to preempt, defend and rapidly respond.

No challengers
Bartlett 8 (Roscoe, House Representative (R-MD), Testimony before the Joint Hearing on Fiscal Year 2009 Budget Request for Tactical Aviation Programs, Congressional Documents and Publications, 3-11, Lexis)

"Today, the United States' airpower is unrivaled. It allows us to hold
AND
Cebrowski, if the day of the aircraft carrier has come and gone.


==1NC Airpower (Climate Hardening)== 
Civilian airport capabilities are bad—their evidence is a request for funding because they fail
Department of the Air Force 1 [Air Force, “PRESENTATION TO THE COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES, SUBCOMMITTEE ON READINESS AND MANAGEMENT, UNITED STATES SENATE”, March 21, 2001, Air Force, http://www.globalsecurity.org/military/library/congress/2001_hr/010321js.pdf , ZBurdette)
Mr. Chairman and members of the committee, good morning and thank you for
AND
constructed, we have demolished four old facilities that were draining our resources.

==1NC Deterrence Shell== 
Deterrence fails
A – Asymmetries of interest
Smith – IR Oxford– ‘3
Derek, Deterrence and Counterproliferation in an Age of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Destruction' Security Studies,12:4,152 — 197
One major flaw of deterrence theory is that it posits a rational actor and then
AND
we would be remiss to assume that they will never do so again.

B – Hail Maries
Smith – IR Oxford– ‘3
Derek, Deterrence and Counterproliferation in an Age of Weapons of Mass Destruction, Destruction' Security Studies,12:4,152 — 197
In moments of severe challenge to regime power or national interest, a leader may
AND
in many rogue states may end up resulting in the leader’s death.81


Preemptive threats aren’t credible – empirically useless in deterring attacks
Martin et al – Policy Analysis Program Officer, Stanley Foundation – ‘8
Matt, A New Look at No First Use, http://www.stanleyfoundation.org/resources.cfm?id=334
In response, one participant mentioned that a conventional security guarantee might not be enough
AND
use is actually militarily useful option, in contrast to available conventional options.

And they encourage preemption against the US
Mueller Poli Sci Rand ‘7
Karl P., Jasen J. Castillo -, Forrest E. Morgen, Striking First : Preemptive and Preventive Attack in U. S. National Security Policy, P. 106
Finally, launching preventive attacks, and to a considerable extent merely advocating them as
AND
take this prospect of increased regional instability into account in future security policymaking.
==1NC Failed States Shell== 
No impact to failed states
Finel 09 - a Contributing Editor at the Atlantic Council, is a Senior Fellow at the American Security Project (ASP) where he directs research on counter-terrorism and defense policy ( April 27, Bernand “Afghanistan is Irrelevant” http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/afghanistan-irrelevant

Second, there is no straight-line between state failure and threats to the
AND
space represents a core national security threat to the United States is simply unsustainable
==1NC Nanotech Shell== 
. Timeframe is long – Development fails and takes decades.
John F. Sargent 5/15/08, Specialist in Science and Technology Policy in the Resources, Science, and Industry Division [“Nanotechnology and U.S. Competitiveness,” [[http://fpc.state.gov/documents/organization/106153.pdf]]]

Basic research in nanotechnology may not translate into viable commercial applications. Though no formal
AND
applications, and many advances in scientific understanding may not present commercial opportunities.

2. Nanotech doesn’t risk extinction – It can’t spread through the air
Freeman J. Dyson 03, Professor of Physics Emeritus at the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, 2-13-2003 New York Review of Books 50:3 http://www.nybooks.com/articles/16053

It is easy to demonstrate that the details of the story are technically flawed.
AND
swarm of insects, they would have to be as large as insects.

4. Self-replicating nanobots are impossible – 3 reasons.
Science in 2k [Robert F. Service, “Is Nanotechnology Dangerous?” Volume 290, Number 5496, November 24, http://www.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/290/5496/1526)

Richard Smalley, a Nobel Prize-winning chemist at Rice University in Houston,
AND
. "It's not real now and will never be in the future."


Self-replicating grey goo is impossible.
Smalley in 2001 [Richard – Gene and Norman Hackerman Professor of Physics and Chemistry @ Rice University, received the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for the discovery of fullerenes – September, “Nanofallacies: of Chemistry, Love, and Nanobots,” Scientific American, Vol. 285 #3]

But how realistic is this notion of a self-replicating nanobot? Let's think
AND
fingers. Such a nanobot will never become more than a futurist's daydream. 
==1NC Steel Shell== 
Steel costs inevitably high
Cooney, 1ac ev, 7 (Stephen Cooney, Congressional Research Service; Resources, Science, and Industry Division at IRL School at Cornell University, “Steel: Price and Policy Issues”, 10-31-2007, http://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1492&context=key_workplace, ZBurdette)
While U.S. domestic demand and input cost factors have helped account for
AND
) filed a complaint at the WTO against China regarding this general issue.
= = 

=Russia= 

==1NC Arctic Conflict Shell== 
Specifically – arctic council prevents war now
Tassinari 9/7 [September 7th, 2012, Fabrizio, non-resident Senior Fellow at the German Marshall Fund and the Head of Foreign Policy and EU Studies at the Danish Institute for International Studies, “Avoiding a Scramble for the High North”, http://blog.gmfus.org/2012/09/07/avoiding-a-scramble-for-the-high-north/]

For a peaceful Arctic environment to emerge,
AND
as navigation rights and delineation of the outer limits of the continental shelf.

No arctic conflict
Dyer 8/4 [August 4th, 2012, Gwynne, London-based independent Canadian journalist, syndicated columnist and military historian., Articles published in 45 countries, "Race for Arctic Mostly Rhetoric", www.winnipegfreepress.com/opinion/columnists/race-for-arctic-mostly-rhetoric-164986566.html]

Russian television contacted me last night asking me to go on a program about the
AND
sea levels worldwide by seven metres. But that's a problem for another day

No conflict – countries are cooperating now
Jones et. al, ’12 [May 2012, Bruce, Senior Fellow and Director of Managing the Global Order @ Brookings, NYU Center for International Cooperation, Andrew Hart, doctoral candidate @ Colorado, David Steven, Senior Fellow @ NYU CIC and leads MGO Geopolitical Scarcity Project, “Chill Out Why Cooperation is Balancing Conflict Among Major Powers in the New Arctic,” Brookings, Managing Global Order, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones]
Over the coming decades, risk in the Arctic will continue to intensify, although
AND
worse than learn lessons from what the Arctic states are trying to achieve.

Arctic conflict is all hype
Yalowitz et al., ‘8 [December 2008, Kenneth S., Director, Dickey Center for International Understanding @ Dartmouth College, The Arctic Climate Change and Security Policy Conference, http://carnegieendowment.org/files/arctic_climate_change.pdf]
In sum, security concerns and issues seem not to be the pressing factor driving
AND
for building interstate cooperation on the structure and momentum of the Arctic Council.

Status quo solves economy – cooperative resource access
Sergunin and Konyshev, ’12 [July 6, 2012, Alexander Sergunin Doctor of Political Science, Professor, St. Petersburg State University, and Valery Konyshev Doctor of Political Science, Professor, St. Petersburg State University, “U.S. Arctic Strategy,” Russian International Affairs Council, http://russiancouncil.ru/en/inner/?id_4=584]
In particular, this concerns measures on ensuring the safety of water and air transportation
AND
the promising Ardalinskoye field. The American party is expected to increase investments.

Arctic is more peaceful there – If conflict starts, it will be started in other areas, which they don’t solve
Franklyn Griffiths, 01 George Ignatieff Chair of Peace and Conflict Studies, U Toronto, Sept. 2001, “Consultation on NATO Nuclear Policy, National Missile Defence & Alternative Security Arrangements,” http://www.ploughshares.ca/libraries/WorkingPapers/Simons%20Conf%20Ottawa/Griffiths.html

Significant changes, yes. But there are also certain continuities. First, it
AND
a upsurge in regional institution-building and cooperation among the Arctic Eight.


NATO checks aggression, and every countries involved is pursuing cooperation.
Bloomberg 1/29/09 “NATO Sees Little Risk of Arctic Confrontation as Ice Caps Melt” http://www.bloomberg.com/apps/news?pid=20601082&sid=agWnAbB2Xc_c&refer=canada

Jan. 29 (Bloomberg) -- NATO’s chief played down the risk of military
AND
frozen shipping lanes increases the risk of accidents, De Hoop Scheffer said.

==1NC Arctic Conflict (Icebreakers)== 

Icebreakers gut cooperative strategies – sparks conflict
Sergunin and Konyshev, ’12 [July 6, 2012, Alexander Sergunin Doctor of Political Science, Professor, St. Petersburg State University, and Valery Konyshev Doctor of Political Science, Professor, St. Petersburg State University, “U.S. Arctic Strategy,” Russian International Affairs Council, http://russiancouncil.ru/en/inner/?id_4=584]
Another direction of bilateral cooperation is the development of transantarctic routes for flights, involving
AND
in “sensitive” zones, and limiting military presence in the Arctic.

===2NC Arctic Conflict=== 
Recent diplomatic trends prove
Jones et. al, ’12 [May 2012, Bruce, Senior Fellow and Director of Managing the Global Order @ Brookings, NYU Center for International Cooperation, Andrew Hart, doctoral candidate @ Colorado, David Steven, Senior Fellow @ NYU CIC and leads MGO Geopolitical Scarcity Project, “Chill Out Why Cooperation is Balancing Conflict Among Major Powers in the New Arctic,” Brookings, Managing Global Order, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones/30%20arctic%20cooperation%20jones]
Recent years have seen a number of important cases in which states have signaled their
AND
expansion in the number and status of observers could also increase its legitimacy.
==1NC Relations Shell== 
Disagreements won’t translate into war – Putin acknowledges that U.S. holds hegemony.
Dimitri Simes 07 Foreign Affairs; Nov/Dec2007, Vol. 86 Issue 6, p36-52, 16p, 3bw, “Losing Russia,” President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest.
These numerous disagreements do not mean that Russia is an enemy. After all,
AND
.S. preferences, particularly at the expense of their own interests.

Relations are resilient – Russia needs the west for development.
Andrew C. Kuchins 08, director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), 2-29, 08, The Russian”Election” http://www.csis.org/media/csis/pubs/080229_cq_russia_election_kuchins.pdf
That does not mean, however, that we are on the brink of a
AND
the countries on its western periphery including Ukraine, Georgia, and others.

No risk of a genuine alliance, ever.
McFaul 07 [Michael, Senior Associate with Russian/Eurasian program at Carnegie, Aug 22, “The Revival of Russia’s Military Power,” http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=19531&prog=zru]
MR. MCFAUL: Yes. The simple answer is yes. And this is
AND
as you mentioned, but other places as well: Ukraine, Belarus.

Disagreements don’t spill over – Both share common security issues.
Fox News 08 “Putin: US, Russia Share Common Ground” http://www.foxnews.com/wires/2008Mar05/0,4670,RussiaUS,00.html

MOSCOW - Russia's relationship with the United States is strained by plenty of disagreements,
AND
was always desire to seek mutually acceptable decisions, compromises," Putin said.

==1NC US War Shell== 
Times have changed – Russia has zero capacity to lash out an Armageddon.
Lieber and Press 06 Keir A. Lieber and Daryl G. Press, from Foreign Affairs, March/April 2006, “The Rise of U.S. Nuclear Primacy” http://www.foreignaffairs.org/20060301faessay85204/keir-a-lieber-daryl-g-press/the-rise-of-u-s-nuclear-primacy.html
For almost half a century, the world's most powerful nuclear states have been locked
AND
shadow of U.S. nuclear primacy for many years to come.

MAD Solves
The Nation – 8/28/08 (“Toward a New New Cold War”, http://www.thenation.com/doc/20080915/cockburn)
As regards disastrous and unnecessary military expenditures, the Russians have not yet digested one
AND
be somebody there under such hypothetical circumstances to remind them of these realities."

Russia has zero capacity for war – Military, economy, and population capacity is severely limited.
James M. Goldgeier and Michael McFaul 05 October 10 (George Washington U and Stanford U, from CAEI: Argentine Center of International Studies, “What to Do About Russia” http://www.caei.com.ar/es/programas/cei/P01.pdf)
Given this constellation of centrifugal forces, some analysts in Washington argue that disengagement is
AND
to come. Russia's population hovers below 150 million and is rapidly declining.


=Space= 

==1NC Colonization Shell== 
Development is unfeasible
Launius 10 – (2010, Roger, PhD, Curator, Planetary Exploration Programs, National Air and Space Museum, expert on Aerospace history, fellow and board member of the American Astronautical Society, “Can we colonize the solar system? Human biology and survival in the extreme space environment,” Endeavour Volume 34, Issue 3, September 2010, Pages 122-129, science direct)
Although microbial life might survive the extreme conditions of space, for Homo sapien sapiens
AND
– provide serious challenges for humans engaged in space colonization (Figure 4).

==1NC Data Sharing Shell== 
Data sharing fails now

Rogers and Parthemore ’11 Will is a research associate specializing in security challenges, and has authored publications on energy, climate change, and environmental cooperation. Christina is an Adjunct Professor in Johns Hopkins University's Global Security Studies Program, and serves on the Council of Advisors for U-Mass Boston's Collaborative Institute for Oceans, Climate and Security. (Center for New American Security, “The Decline of U.S. Earth Monitoring Capabilities and Its Consequences for National Security”, July 2011, http://www.cnas.org/files/documents/publications/CNAS_Blinded_ParthemoreRogers_0.pdf)
Our research suggests that the U.S. government relies heavily on GEOSS – an international program for sharing and analyzing environmental data – to increase international
coordination and to access data from other sources. In part, this reliance is
AND
need to understand and prepare for the effects of environmental and climate change.

==1NC Space War Shell== 
Redudancy prevents space war now
Forden, 8 - Massachusetts Institute of Technology (Geoffrey, Astropolitics, 6:138–153, “VIEWPOINT: CHINA AND SPACE WAR,” Ebsco Political Science)
However, China could not launch the massive attack required to have anything like a
AND
the least vulnerable, because of the tremendous redundancy of its space assets.
organization to propel China to its rightful place in world affairs.

New NSP emphasizes multilateralism – means no weaponization
Zhang, 11 – Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)
As Kevin Narizny points out in his study of grand strategy, political turnover in
AND
the world’s efforts for space arms control and prevention of an arms race.”

==1NC Unilateralism Turn== 
Turn – unilateral action risks space war
Hitchens, 7 – director of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, STATEMENT BY BEFORE THE NATIONAL SECURITY AND FOREIGN AFFAIRS SUBCOMMITTEE HOUSE OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNNMENT REFORM COMMITTEE ON WEAPONIZING SPACE: IS CURRENT U.S. POLICY PROTECTION OUR SECURITY? MAY 23, [[http://www.cdi.org/PDFs/HitchensTestimony.pdf]])

Further, other responses to counter perceived space threats are possible, such as increased
AND
S. ability to use space as a “soft power” tool.

==2NC AT First Strike== 
Even if they’re right, their aff is too slow to do anything about it
Tellis, 07 (Senior Associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. Ashley, Survival, Autumn, “China’s Military Space Strategy”, ingenta)
inally, the growing Chinese capability for space warfare implies that a future conflict in
AND
conflict, even without the added complications of accidents and further misperception.96
=Terrorism= 
==1NC Nuclear Terrorism Shell== 
No risk of a terrorist attack inside the US
Mueller, 2006 (John, Professor of political science at Ohio state University, “Is there still a terrorist threat?” Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct, Vol. 85, Issue 5)

Instead, Americans are told--often by the same people who had once predicted
AND
is not only American alarmists who are given to extravagant huffing and puffing.

Their authors have political and financial incentives to exaggerate the threat of terrorism
Mueller, 2007 (John, Professor of political science at Ohio State University, “Fear Not: notes from a naysayer,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, March/April)

The financial response to 9/11 has created a vast and often well-
AND
,000 per year to $934,000 in one case.10

US won’t overreact to nuclear terrorism
Jenkins-Smith ‘04
Hank C. Jenkins-Smith, PhD. Prof @ George H.W. Bush School of Government and Public Service at Texas A&M U and Kerry G. Herron, Ph.D. Research Scientist at George H.W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M U, Fall 2004

Our final contrasting set of expectations relate to the degree to which the public will
AND
-ness to engage in military retaliation moderated significantly over the following year.

==1NC Terrorism (v. NIB)== 
You don’t solve – gaps are inevitable
Ben Brandt, November 30 2011. “Terrorist Threats to Commercial Aviation: A Contemporary Assessment.” Ben Brandt is a senior fellow at the Combating Terrorism Center (CTC) – prepares Americans with news on recent security measures. http://www.ctc.usma.edu/posts/terrorist-threats-to-commercial-aviation-a-contemporary-assessment
Most importantly, the TSA and policymakers must publicly acknowledge that it is impossible to
AND
be done to ensure that commercial aviation remains both secure and commercially viable.

Status quo solves – increased security budgets and newest tech
Napolitano ’10 – United States Secretary of Homeland Security, Former Attorney General of Arizona, Truman Scholar and Valedectorian from Santa Clara University, London School of Economics, J.D from University of Virginia Law School (Janet, 8/2/2010. “Securing the Skies: A Global Push for Aviation Security”, Foreign Affairs]
More than a dozen nations have already joined the United States in strengthening the global
AND
development of new, innovative aviation security technologies to counter the evolving threats.

Ports are safe now
Rockwell 2012- Washington Correspondent for Security News for Government Security News. (Mark, “TSA and U.S. Coast Guard Extend TWIC Renewal” Government Security News, 6/18/2012 <http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/26569c=maritime_port_security> 6/19/12)
The Transportation Security Administration and the U.S. Coast Guard have implemented a
AND
a digital photograph and successfully pass a security threat assessment conducted by TSA.
==1NC Bioterror Shell== 
No risk of a terrorist attack inside the US
Mueller, 2006 (John, Professor of political science at Ohio state University, “Is there still a terrorist threat?” Foreign Affairs, Sep/Oct, Vol. 85, Issue 5)

Instead, Americans are told--often by the same people who had once predicted
AND
is not only American alarmists who are given to extravagant huffing and puffing.

Their authors have political and financial incentives to exaggerate the threat of terrorism
Mueller, 2007 (John, Professor of political science at Ohio State University, “Fear Not: notes from a naysayer,” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, March/April)

The financial response to 9/11 has created a vast and often well-
AND
,000 per year to $934,000 in one case.10

Multiple barriers mean bioterror is extremely unlikely
Schneidmiller, Global Security Newswire, 1-13-09 (Chris, “Experts Debate Threat of Nuclear, Biological Terrorism,” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090113_7105.php)

Panel moderator Benjamin Friedman, a research fellow at the Cato Institute, said academic
AND
. Which can't make anything and what it would make is just garbage."

Biological weapons won’t be used and won’t cause extinction
Mueller, 2005 (John, Professor of political science at Ohio State University, “Simplicity and Spook: Terrorism and the Dynamics of Threat Exaggeration,” International Studies Perspectives, 6, 208-234)

Properly developed and deployed, biological weapons could indeed, if thus far only in
AND
49, 62; Broad and Miller, 1998; Easterbrook, 2002).
==1NC CyberTerror Shell== 

Hacker Terrorism is not a threat
Libicki, ’99 (Martin, Senior Policy Analyst, RAND, “Rethinking War: The Mouse’s New Roar?” FOREIGN POLICY, December 1999, p. 30+.)
Or so Hollywood would have us believe. Were cyberterrorism or blackmail so easy,
AND
meantime, government law enforcement has proved surprisingly effective in deterring some hackers.
=Warming= 
==1NC Shell== 
And, warming isn’t a debate—positive feedbacks and existing emissions mean its inevitable
Solomon et al ‘9 [Susan- member of the US National Academy of Sciences, the European Academy of Sciences, and the Academy of Sciences of France, Nobel Peace Prize Winner, Chairman of the IPCC, “Irreversible climate change due to carbon dioxide emissions,” PNAS, Vol 106, 2/10/09 http://www.pnas.org/content/early/2009/01/28/0812721106.full.pdf]
Over the 20th century, the atmospheric concentrations of key greenhouse gases increased due to
AND
magnitude that is directly linked to the peak level of carbon dioxide reached.

No impact – empirics
Willis, et. al, ‘10 [Kathy J. Willis, Keith D. Bennett, Shonil A. Bhagwat & H. John B. Birks (2010): 4 °C and beyond: what did this mean for biodiversity in the past?, Systematics and Biodiversity, 8:1, 3-9, http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14772000903495833
The most recent climate models and fossil evidence for the early Eocene Climatic Optimum (
AND
subtle changes in plant–animal interactions (Harrington & Jaramillo, 2007).]
==1NC Warming Not Real== 
No warming now --- computer models are exaggerated and alarmism is used for funding
Wall Street Journal 1/19/12 (“No Need to Panic About Global Warming” http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052970204301404577171531838421366.html, PZ)
*The following has been signed by the 16 scientists with the following credentials:
AND
the IPCC, aggressive greenhouse-gas control policies are not justified economically.

Earth is coolling
Idso et. Al 11 – (Craig D., Robert M. Carter, S. Fred Singer, Susan Crockford, Sherwood Idso, Anthony Lupo, Willie Soon, Mitch Taylor, Indur Goklany, Joseph D’Aleo, Madhav Khandekar,”Interim Report: Climate Change Reconsidered”, The Heartland Institute, p.82, September 2011, KTOP)
In a paper titled “A strong bout of natural cooling in 2008” published
AND
other natural phenomena dictate the ever-changing state of Earth‘s climate


Natural cycles cause negative feedbacks it ouwtiweghs
Ferrara 6/4/12 - a policy advisor to the Heartland Institute and general counsel of the American Civil Rights Union. He served in the White House Office of Policy Development under President Reagan (Peter “Sorry global warming alarmists, the Earth is cooling” http://www.freedompolitics.com/articles/climate-3668-alarmists-global.html, PZ)
Climate change itself is already in the process of definitively rebutting climate alarmists who think
AND
Summer in 1816 (which may have had other contributing short term causes).

Warming not inevitable—their models are flawed—natural cycles mean it will inevitably decline
Singer et al, ’11 [2011, Robert M. Carter is a palaeontologist, stratigrapher, marine geologist and adjunct professorial research fellow in earth sciences at James Cook University, S. Fred Singer is an American physicist and emeritus professor of environmental science at the University of Virginia, Craig D. Idso has a PhD in Geography from Arizona State University, “Climate Change Reconsidered”, Interim Report, http://www.nipccreport.org/reports/2011/pdf/FrontMatter.pdf]
To introduce the topic of intrinsic problems with GCMs, consider a paper that fails
AND
occurring. To say such models are ―robust‖ is wishful thinking.

Feedbacks are net negative
Spencer, ’08 [2008, Roy, climatologist and a Principal Research Scientist for the University of Alabama in Huntsville, as well as the U.S. Science Team Leader for the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer on NASA’s Aqua satellite, Satellite and Climate Model Evidence Against Substantial Manmade Climate Change (supercedes “Has the Climate Sensitivity Holy Grail Been Found?”) http://www.drroyspencer.com/research-articles/satellite-and-climate-model-evidence/]
What I have presented here is, as far as I know, the most
AND
to predict too much global warming in response to anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions.
===2NC No Impact=== 
Framing issue – their evidence is speculative on the effect of warming – prefer historical analysis in determining warming –
Willis, et. al, ‘10 [Kathy J. Willis, Keith D. Bennett, Shonil A. Bhagwat & H. John B. Birks (2010): 4 °C and beyond: what did this mean for biodiversity in the past?, Systematics and Biodiversity, 8:1, 3-9, [[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/14772000903495833]]
So why is there this discrepancy between what the fossil and historical records are telling
AND
the synergistic effect of these two factors on biodiversity (Travis, 2003)


===2NC Radiates Into Space=== 
Energy radiates out into space—Overwhelming satellite data confirms our argument—star this card
Taylor 11 James M. Taylor is senior fellow for environment policy at The Heartland Institute and managing editor of Environment & Climate News 7/27 “New NASA Data Blow Gaping Hole In Global Warming Alarmism” Forbes[[@http://news.yahoo.com/nasa-data-blow-gaping-hold-global-warming-alarmism-192334971.html]]
*Note on qualifications: Dr. Roy Spencer is a principal research scientist at the University of Alabama in Huntsville and U.S. Science Team Leader for the Advanced Microwave, climatologist, and has worked for NASA
NASA satellite data from the years 2000 through 2011 show the Earth's atmosphere is allowing
AND
great deal about how honest the purveyors of global warming alarmism truly are.

===2NC Negative Feedbacks=== 
Water vapor outweighs
Andrews, ’10 [January 29, 2010, Michael Andrews, “Dropping Water Vapor Levels are Naturally Negating Carbon's Warming Effects”, http://www.dailytech.com/Dropping+Water+Vapor+Levels+are+Naturally+Negating+Carbons+Warming+Effects+/article17553.htm
***Note – he is citing a peer-reviewed study by Susan Solomon , Karen H. Rosenlof and Robert W. Portmann, John S. Daniel, Sean M. Davis, Todd J. Sanford –research scientists for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Gian-Kasper Plattner – works at Climate and Environmental Physics, Physics Institute, University of Bern, Sidlerstrasse 5, 3012 Bern, Switzerland
Recently there has been a rash of incidents in which climate alarmists have been embarrassingly
AND
of the model based research used to predict warming is likely badly flawed.

CO2 fertilization creates negative feedbacks which solves their impact 5 ways
Idso, et. al, 08 [Sherwood PhD and fmr research physicist for the Dept of Ag, Keith PhD Botany, Craig PhD Geography, “Feedback Factors (Diffuse Light) – Summary”, http://co2science.org/subject/f/summaries/feedbackdiffuse.php
The first of the linkages in this negative feedback loop is the proven propensity for
AND
subsequent transfers of the extra fixed carbon to plant and soil storage reservoirs.

=Solvency Attacks= 
==1NC Climate Hardening== 
Thank you Zach Burdette

No solvency—the aff takes too long
AGC, 1ac, 11 (5/19/2011, The Associated General Contractors of America, “THE CASE FOR INFRASTRUCTURE & REFORM: Why and How the Federal Government Should Continue to Fund Vital Infrastructure in the New Age of Public Austerity,” http://www.agc.org/galleries/news/Case-for-Infrastructure-Reform.pdf, ZBurdette)

Even when their money isn’t being diverted to earmarked projects or unrelated programs, many
AND
primarily because of the substantial regulatory burdens and the slow pace of funding.

Federal action isn’t sufficient to solve
Sutley et al., 1ac ev, 10 (Nancy H. Sutley is the Chair Council of the White House Council on Environmental Quality of the Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Force; Masters in Public Policy @ Harvard; BA in government @ Cornell; former assistant to the EPA administrator Jane Lubchenco is the administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Association; Professor of Marine Biology @ Oregon University; Ph.D. @ Harvard Shere Abbott is the Associate Director of E-OSTP; MS @ Yale; BS @ Goucher College; Director of the Center of Science @ UT Austin Jason Bordoff is the Associate Director for Energy and Climate Change Maria Blair is the Deputy Associate Director for Climate Change Adaptation John Holdren is the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy Diana DiEuliis is the Senior Policy Analyst @ OSTP // Kathy Jacobs is the Assistant Director for Climate Change Adaptation and Assessment—names omitted ) ‘White House Interagency Climate Change Adaptation Progress Report’ http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/microsites/ceq/Interagency-Climate-Change-Adaptation-Progress-Report.pdf, ZBurdette)

The Federal Government has an important and unique role in climate adaptation, but it
AND
adaptation strategies, since most adaptive actions will occur at the local level.

==1NC Icebreakers== 
Thank you Sumon

Plan takes at least 10 years to be implemented
O’Rourke, ‘12 [June 15, 2012, Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf]
The Coast Guard’s proposed FY2013 budget includes $8 million in acquisition funding to initiate
AND
a polar icebreaker is a new acquisition project initiated in the FY2013 budget.

Process of procuring icebreakers ensures delayes

O’Rourke, ‘12 [June 15, 2012, Ronald O’Rourke, Specialist in Naval Affairs Foreign Affairs, Defense, and Trade Division, Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf]
The Coast Guard estimated in February 2008 that new replacement ships for the Polar Star
AND
, contract award, and construction] is eight to ten years.32

Lack of satellite bandwith prevents effect exploration in the arctic
DoD ‘11 (Department of Defense, “Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage,” OUSD (Policy), May 2011,http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf)
The capabilities likely to be most affected by the extreme Arctic environment include: navigation
AND
in order to support evolving defense, safety, and security efforts adequately.

==1NC HSR== 
Costs and time means no ridership
O’Toole, ‘09 (Randal, senior fellow at CATO, “High-Speed Rail is Not ‘Interstate 2.0,’” September 9, http://www.cato.org/pubs/bp/bp113.pdf)
Who would be among the lucky few to enjoy heavily subsidized high-speed train
AND
and other high-income people who hardly need taxpayer-subsidized transportation.

Not enough new travelers mean no increase in mobility
O’Toole, ‘11 [2/14/11, Randal O’Toole is a senior fellow with the Cato Institute , “High-Speed Pork,” [[http://www.cato.org/publications/commentary/highspeed-pork]]]
The real value of any new transportation technology comes from the new mobility it creates
AND
aside from this fairly wealthy elite will regularly ride high-speed trains.

Terrorists will attack the HSR – derails the train – vote negative on presumption
HITRAC ‘6 (Homeland Infrastructure Threat & Risk Analysis Center (HITRAC), Office of Intelligence and Analysis / Directorate for Preparedness, Strategic Sector Assessment, “(U//FOUO) The Terrorist Threat to the U.S. Commercial Passenger and Freight Rail System”, Ohttp://www.nefafoundation.org/file/FeaturedDocs/HITRAC_PassengerFreightRail.pdf, May 24, 2006, LEQ)
Chemical, Biological, or Radiological Attacks (U//FOUO) Terrorists show continuing
AND
tunnels may increase casualties when they involve hazardous materials or are under water.

==1NC Accessible Infrastructure== 
Status-quo solves – accessibility for the disabled is already politicized
CAS, 2010 (Center for an Accessible Society, “The American’s with Disabilities Act”, March, http://www.accessiblesociety.org/topics/ada/index.html)

Ten years after the signing of the Americans with Disabilities Act in 1990, this
AND
by law for nearly 25 years to make their campus and classrooms accessible.

Addressing accessibility to transportation is insufficient – multiple other barriers prove the Aff doesn’t solve
Rosenbloom, 2007 (Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)
Perhaps the most intractable issue in current debates is the tendency of those in every
AND
extend beyond public transit networks and, indeed, beyond transportation systems alone.

Fixating on transportation alone fails
Rosenbloom, 2007 (Sandra, Professor of Planning at the University of Arizona, “Transportation Patterns and Problems of People with Disabilities”, The Future of Disability in America, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK11420/)
Finally, all evidence suggests that transportation is a necessary but not a sufficient condition
AND
address the access and mobility needs of a range of travelers with disabilities.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]