[[toc]]
=Return to Home Page= 

[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan|Return to Home Page]]

[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Affirmative|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Affirmative]]
[[debatecoaches/2011-2012 - College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Counterplans|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Counterplans]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Disadvantages|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Disadvantages]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Kritiks|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Kritiks]]
[[debatecoaches/College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Past 2NRs|College Prep (CA) - Elsa Givan & Nicholas Yan - Past 2NRs]]

=Topicality= 
==T-Substantial== 
===1NC Shell - DSCOVR=== 
**A. Interpretation – the affirmative must substantially increase space exploration and/or development**
**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Alexander, 8</span>** (Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from [[http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html]])

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008...spending guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities</span>


**Substantial in the context of NOAA satellites is $242.2 million.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">NOAA 2/8</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif';"> (“NOAA Budget to Fund Ocean, Climate Priorities”, <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">[[http://www.noaanews.noaa.gov/stories2008/20080204_09budget.html]]</span>) NYan</span>


<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The budget includes a substantial increase...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">supporting the next generation of geostationary satellites.</span>


**B. Violation – the plan costs 47 million dollars**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Brinton 11 </span>**(Turner Brinton, staff writer for Space News, July 12, 2011 “House Panel Denies Funding for Pair of NOAA Satellite Projects” Space News [[http://www.spacenews.com/civil/110718-house-panel-denies-funding-for-dscovr-cosmic-2-missions.html]]



<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The U.S. House Appropriations Committee will vote...</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">program in 2011 but $168.6 million less than the request.</span>




==T-Beyond== 
===**1NC Shell**=== 
**A. Interpretation – exploration must be beyond the earth’s mesosphere.**
**Encyclopedia Britannica 11**
[[http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/557348/space-exploration]]
"space exploration." Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica, 2011. Web. 09 May. 2011. <http://www.britannica.com/EBchecked/topic/557348/space-exploration>.

<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">space exploration: the investigation...</span>benefit humanity.

**Beyond means on the farther side.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Merriam-Webster 11</span>** (“beyond,” http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/beyond)

Definition of BEYOND 1 : on<span class="UnderlineChar"> or to </span>the farther side : farther

**Mesosphere is part of earth’s atmosphere between stratosphere and thermosphere.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Merriam-Webster 11</span>** (“mesosphere,” http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/mesosphere?show=0&t=1309568486)

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Definition of </span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">MESOSPHERE...atmosphere's absolute minimum</span>

**B. Violation – Exploration and use excludes passive SETI and astronomy – international law proves**
**Lyall 98**

Professor of Public Law. Member IISL. University of Abderdeen

Acta Astronautica, Volume 42, Issues 10-12, May-June 1998, Pages 661-665

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Under the general concept...</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">subject to the Outer Space Treaty</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">2NC Limits Key</span>=== 
**And, limited topics are key to strong __institutional support__ of policy programs—this internal-link turns education.**
**Rowland 84**<span style="font-size: 13.3333px; text-decoration: none;"> (Robert C., Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">The first major problem identified by the work group...has led some small schools to cancel their programs.</span>

===<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 16px;">Internal Interpretation</span>=== 

**AND / OR means AND.**
**<span style="font-size: 16px;">Wood 1</span>** Diane P. Wood, Circuit Judge – United States Court of Appeals, “Susan E. Hess, Plaintiff-Appellee, v. Hartford Life & Accident Insurance Company”, 12-13-2001, http://caselaw.lp.findlaw.com/cgi-bin/getcase.pl?court=7th&navby=case&no=002043

<span style="font-family: 'Arial Narrow','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Having determined that Hess's 1996 employment contract...contract was arbitrary and capricious</span>
==ORS Spec== 
===1NC Shell=== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A. Interpretation - they must specify the mechanism for ORS implementation – the term ‘ORS’ is vague</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**Larrimore 7** (April, Scott C. Lt Col, USAF, Air Force Fellows Air University, “Operationally Responsive Space: A New Paradigm or Another False Start?”</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">[[https://www.afresearch.org/skins/rims/q_mod_be0e99f3-fc56-4ccb-8dfe-670c0822a153/q_act_downloadpaper/q_obj_5ea32116-b119-43ab-8fcb-9565110bb741/display.aspx?rs=enginespage]])RK</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">A sampling of these writings reveals one thing... natural phenomenon 3. Enhancing space situational awareness6</span>

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">B. Violation – the affirmative plan text affirms a strategy, but not a mechanism or means to that strategy.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">C. Defining ORS is a prerequisite to their solvency debate – they can’t solve, vote neg on presumption</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">**GAO 8** (US Government Accountability Office, “Defense Space Activities: DOD Needs to Further Clarify the Operationally Responsive Space Concept and Plan to Integrate and Support Future Satellites,” 7/14/2k8, [[http://www.gao.gov/htext/d08831.html]])</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">DOD is making <span class="UnderlineChar">some </span>progressin developing the ORS concept, but whether...understood concept<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">, </span>DOD’s ability to fully meet warfighter needs may be hampered<span class="BoldUnderlineChar">.</span></span>