[[toc]]
=China Steel DA= 

**China Steel Sector moving ahead but fragile – New Year jolt**
Strategic Research Institute, TODAY (12:05 AM 1/5/13, CLPPI - Chinese Long Product Price Index CFPPI - Chinese Flat Product Price Index¶ CHISPI - Chinese Steel Price Index¶ (www.steelprices-china.com)¶ Source - Strategic Research Institute, http://www.steelguru.com/chinese_news/New_Year_opens_with_a_bang_in_Chinese_steel_market/297230.html, New Year opens with a bang in Chinese steel market)

2013 had crackling opening in …before the Lunar Holiday in early February.


**New transportation projects revive the US steel industry – allow to compete internationally**
AAM (Alliance for American Manufacturing) Feb 2010 “Buy America Works: Longstanding United States Policy Enhances the Job Creating Effect of Government Spending”, http://www.mcwanebuyamerican.com/pdfs/buyamericanworks.pdf
The deterioration of our industrial …now and in the years to come.


**Increased U.S. steel capacity undercuts China’s market share – that’s the backbone of Chinese growth**
George Haley (PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven) March 24 2009 “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php
What impact has China’s support …overseas to remain price competitive.


**Economic growth prevents CCP lash out**
Susan Shirk (director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation) and Ho Miu Lam (professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs) 2007 Fragile China
As China’s leaders well know, the …lashing out might endanger Party rule.”


**Collapse of the CCP control triggers a nuclear civil war and regional conflicts**
Yee and Storey 02 (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 (The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, p. 5.
The fourth factor contributing to the …threat to its neighbours and the world.



=Politics – Immigration= 

**Immigration reform will pass – Obama’s pushing compromise**
Sink 1-15 ( “White House: Rubio immigration proposals 'bode well' for reform efforts” [[http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/277307-white-house-rubio-immigration-proposals-bode-well-for-reform-efforts#ixzz2IFwt2r00|http://thehill.com/blogs/blog-briefing-room/news/277307-white-house-rubio-immigration-proposals-bode-well-for-reform-efforts#ixzz2IFwt2r00]])
White House press secretary …this augers well for the future."


**The plan drains political capital**
Rubinstein, ’12 (Dana, Reporter for Capital New York, has written for Bloomberg Businessweek, the Wall Street Journal, the New York Times, the New York Observer, and the Brooklyn Paper “When is Obama going to have his Eisenhower moment?” March 27, 2012 http://www.capitalnewyork.com/article/politics/2012/03/5524547/when-obama-going-have-his-eisenhower-moment)
Ask a transportation expert …financing entirely from the gas tax.


**Political capital key**
Dallas Morning News, 1-2 (Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge, p. http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece)
The president’s words to … interview on Meet the Press Sunday


**Key to hegemony**
Nye 12/10/12 (Joseph S. Nye, a former US assistant secretary of defense and chairman of the US National Intelligence Council, is University Professor at Harvard University, [[http://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/obama-needs-immigration-reform-to-maintain-america-s-strength-by-joseph-s--nye]])
The United States is a nation of … to maintain the strength of the US.


**Extinction**
Barnett 11 (Thomas P.M., Former Senior Strategic Researcher and Professor in the Warfare Analysis & Research Department, Center for Naval Warfare Studies, U.S. Naval War College American military geostrategist and Chief Analyst at Wikistrat., worked as the Assistant for Strategic Futures in the Office of Force Transformation in the Department of Defense, “The New Rules: Leadership Fatigue Puts U.S., and Globalization, at Crossroads,” March 7)
Events in Libya are a … Pacific Century now unfolding.

OR

**Comprehensive reform key to relations with China and India**
Williams 11-9 (Carol J, International Affairs Writer “Other countries eagerly await U.S. immigration reform”, http://latimesblogs.latimes.com/world_now/2012/11/us-immigration-reform-eagerly-awaited-by-source-countries.html)
"Comprehensive immigration reform will … opportunity as a bigger plus than not," he said.


**US/India relations averts South Asian nuclear war.**
Schaffer, 2002 (Teresita – Director of the South Asia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Security, Washington Quarterly, p. Lexis)
Washington's increased interest in India … relations with the United States.




=Clean Tech DA= 

**US is leading the clean-tech race now**
Jon Swartz 11 [ USA TODAY’s award-winning technology reporter and Pulitzer Prize nominee, covers Silicon Valley trends, social networking, and various aspects of Internet security including software, spam and hacking. A high-tech journalist since 1987, Swartz has written for Chicago Tribune, Forbes, London Times, MacWEEK, San Francisco Chronicle and Times-Picayune. He was named a top media influencer in the 2002 and 2003 newspapers category in Adweek Magazine’s Technology Marketing Media Influencer’s Report. He has won numerous journalism awards and is a two-time finalist for the Loebs, the Pulitzers of business reporting. Swartz is co-author of Zero Day Threat: The Shocking Truth of How Banks and Credit Bureaus Help Cyber Crooks Steal Your Money and Identity. May, 2011 “Big companies aggressively jump into clean tech,” [[http://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/2011-05-25-green-tech-investing_n.htm]] ]
A few years ago, investing …picture" in energy use, he says.


**The plan kills renewable energy**
Paul Parfomak, Specialist in Energy and Infrastructure Resources, Industry Division and Science and Peter Folger Specialist in Energy Policy Resources, Science and Industry Division, CRS Report, “Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Pipelines for Carbon Sequestration: Emerging Policy Issues”, 2007 Google Scholar
In addition to these … energy and environmental policies.


**Clean tech leadership averts global war – independently turns the warming**
Louis Klarevas Professor of Global Affairs, Professor at the Center for Global Affairs – New York University, December 15, 2009 “[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html|Securing American Primacy While Tackling Climate Change: Toward a National Strategy of Greengemony]]”, Huffington Post, 12-15, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/louis-klarevas/securing-american-primacy_b_393223.html
By not addressing climate … potential foes in check.



=Environment DA= 

**Restoration measures are coming now for inland waterways**
IWL 12 (Izaak Walton League, May 2012, “Restoration Funding Approved for Missouri and Upper Mississippi Rivers” www.iwla.org/index.php?ht=action/GetDocumentAction/i/25155)
Funding for restoring habitat, …River next fiscal year.


**Additional inland waterway construction devastates scarce ecosystems**
IWR 12 (Institute for Water Resources, 6/20/12, “US Port and Inland Waterways Modernization: Preparing for Post-Panamax Vessels” www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/portswaterways/rpt/June_20_REPORT_SUMMARY_U.S._Port_and_Inland_Waterways_Modernization.pdf )
Potential infrastructural development along coasts …ecosystems and domestic water supplies. 


**Ecosystem collapse causes extinction**
Diner 94 (David Dinner, Ph. D in Planetary Science and Geology, “The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who’s Endangering Who?” Military Law Review 143, 1994)
To accept that the snail darter… be edging closer to the abyss.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]