[[toc]]
**I decided having all the case stuff here made it too cluttered - I'll post impact turns, but other than that just email me for cites against a particular aff**

=**Warming Turns (Updated 11/6)**= 
==1NC – Ice Age== 

Ice age is coming now - extinction by 2027. 
**Chapman ’08** [Phil, geophysicist and astronautical engineer, Apr 23, “Sorry to ruin the fun, but an ice age cometh,” http://www.theaustralian.news.com.au/story/0,25197,23583376-5013480,00.html]

Disconcerting as it may … catastrophe beyond imagining.

Warming prevents the ice age and extinction. 
**Business Wire ’91** [Feb 14, “Study: global warming may be beneficial,” Lexis]

Global warming may be … become a lifeless planet.


==2NC – Ice Age== 

There’s only a risk that global warming can prevent an ice age because elevated CO2 levels remove necessary ice age conditions. 
**Weaver ’04** [Andrew, Professor of Earth & Ocean Sciences at University of Victoria, Apr 16, “Global Warming and the Next Ice Age,” Science p. 400]

A popular idea in the media, … unlikely to occur for another 50,000 years.



We’re due for an ice age 
**Hecht ’05** [Laurence, Editor of Science & Technology Magazine, “Is a new ice age underway?”
http://www.21stcenturysciencetech.com/articles/Ice_Age.html]

These cycles are not mere … in some places may already be taking place.




=Space Colonization Turns (Updated 11/17)= 

==1NC== 

Space exploration it destroys the ozone later and the environment causing extinction 
**Chistyakova ’99**
[Ekaterina Chistyakova, “Space Activity Endangers Biosphere”, ENS, April 21, http://www.climateark.org/articles/1999/nearspac.htm]

At the same time, … of space activity as well.


Space exploration causes space diseases and extinction 
**Mullen ’03**
[Leslie, 8-25-2003, “Alien Infection,” Astrobiology Magazine, http://www.astrobio.net/news/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=570]

Chris Chyba, who holds the … and environment of our planet.


Exploration inevitably results in weaponization to protect space assets 
**Dinkin 04** (Sam Dinkin, 7/26/04, “Space privatization: road to freedom” www.thespacereview.com/article/193/1)

There are some … for the disparity.


Makes the aff impossible 
**Gunasekara 12** (Surya Gablin Gunasekara of American Petroleum Institute, “Mutually Assured Destruction: Space Weapons, Orbital Debris and the Deterrence Theory for Environmental Sustainability,” 1/7/12, Air & Space Law, Vol. 37, p. 2 http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1980710 NiMo)

If the use of space … that create debris.

==2NC/1NR – Nuke War== 

Space weapons make nuclear war inevitable 
**Mitchell et al. 01** (Dr. Gordon, Associate Professor of Communication and Director of Debate at the University of Pittsburgh, “ISIS Briefing on Ballistic Missile Defence, a Missile Defence: Trans-Atlantic Diplomacy at a Crossroads” July, www.pitt.edu/~gordonm/JPubs/Mitchelletal2001b.pdf)

A buildup of space weapons might begin with noble … destructive military conflict ever seen.



==2NC/1NR – Heg== 

Space weaponization would tank US hegemony – encourages rivals and spurs terrorism 
**Hitchens 02** (Theresa, CDI Vice President, 4/18 “Weapons in Space: Silver Bullet or Russian Roulette? The Policy Implications of U.S. Pursuit of Space-Based Weapons” www.cdi.org/missile-defense/spaceweapons.cfm)

China and Russia long have been worried … they face today from ballistic missiles.


==2NC/1NR – Econ== 


Space warfare would be detrimental to the economy 
**Krepon 04** (Michael, president of the Henry L. Stimson Center, “Avoiding the Weaponization of Space” www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/Avoiding_the_Weaopnization_of_Space.pdf)

If Rumsfeld’s plans to weaponize … pumps were also affected.5



==2NC/1NR – UQ== 

Space militarization is distinct from weaponization – the latter hasn’t occurred 
**Krepon et. al. 11** (Michael, President of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Theresa Hitchens, Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research and Michael Katz-Hyman, Research Associate at the Henry L. Stimson Center on the Space Security and South Asia Projects, Toward a Theory of Space Power: Selected Essays, February, www.ndu.edu/press/lib/pdf/spacepower/spacepower.pdf)

While acknowledging gray … is favorable to the United States.

Space weaponization is distinct from militarization – even if there’s militarization now, weaponization is NOT inevitable - other countries follow the US 
**Krepon and Clary 04** (Michael Krepon, president emeritus of the Henry L. Stimson Center, Christopher Clary, specialist in South Asian security and defense issues for Avascent International, country director for South Asian affairs in the Office of the Secretary of Defense from 06-09, research associate for the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School from 03-05, “Space Assurance or Space Dominance,” 2004, www.stimson.org/images/uploads/research-pdfs/spaceintro.pdf)

Space is already “militarized,” in the sense that satellites provide … depends heavily, but not solely, on U.S. choices.