[[toc]]
=GMO Bad - BioD= 

**A. GMO’s allow for biological colonialism which destroys the environment**
Rifkin 1999
(Jeremy, President of the Foundation on Economic Trends in Washington DC, The Biotech Century, p, 95-6)
There is not a single instance in history …greave new risks for the environment.


**B. Extinction**
Diner ’94
[David, Major in US Army, Winter, “THE ARMY AND THE ENDANGERED SPECIES ACT: WHO'S ENDANGERING WHOM?” Lexis]
Biologically diverse ecosystems are characterized …mankind may be edging closer to the abyss.



=GMO Bad - International Trade= 

**A. GM crop regulations cause international trade breakdown and trade segmentation**
Isaac 2K2
(Grant E., Dean of the College of Commerce at the University of Saskatchewan, Senior Associate with the Estey Centre for law and Economics in International Trade and with the London School of Economics’ International Trade Policy Unit, Ph.D. London School of Economics, “Agricultural Biotechnology and Transatlantic Trade: Regulatory Barriers to GM Crops,” CABI Publishing, p. 57-8, google books)
In Chapter 5, it will be argued that…Chapters 6 and 7 in Part III of this study.


**B. Causes Nuke war**
Copley News Service 1999
(December 1, l/n)
For decades, many children in America …They should be celebrating it.


=Stavrakakis= 

**Utopian imagery is dangerous – utopia is impossible and we will create scapegoats and exterminate them**
Stavrakakis 99 (Yannis, Lacan and the Political, Visiting Professor, Department of Government, University of Essex, pages 99-100).
Our age is clearly an … highly problematic area (seminar of 18 June 1958).



=Downgrade= 

**Fiscal discipline now – no new spending for the next 6 months**
Dayton Business Journal 12 (8/1/12, “Congress reaches 6-month budget deal” www.bizjournals.com/dayton/blog/morning_call/2012/08/congress-reaches-6-month-budget-deal.html)
U.S. House and Senate leaders … Obama to be signed into law."


**New spending will trigger a credit downgrade**
Thriving Tools 12 (“The U.S. Credit Rating Downgrade” www.thrivingtools.com/government/the-u-s-credit-rating-downgrade/)
Standard and Poor’s made the …does not keep control over spending.


**Further downgrades will cause a global economic crisis – turns case**
Goldwein 11 (Marc Goldwein, senior policy analyst for the fiscal policy program at the New America Foundation, 8/11/11, “Drawing a AAA-Road Map for Post-Downgrade America” www.theatlantic.com/business/archive/2011/08/drawing-a-aaa-road-map-for-post-downgrade-america/243463/)
What are the consequences of … available to bail out the U.S. government.



=Rail Turn= 

**Plan reverse the shift to rail**
CCES 10 (Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, June 2010, “Freight Transportation” www.c2es.org/technology/factsheet/FreightTransportation)
As mentioned above, convenience … is used to transport a good.


**Railroads are vital to prevent the economy from grinding to a halt**
Oberstar 01 (Statement of James Oberstar who was a Representative from 1975-2011 to the Subcommittee on Railroads of the House Committee of Transportation and Infrastructure, 4/25/01, “Rail Infrastructure” ProQuest, pg 135-6)
Railroads are vital to our …traffic off the nation’s highways.



=Heg Bad - China War= 

**Attempts to maintain hegemonic dominance makes war with China inevitable** 
Layne 08 (Christopher Layne, Professor, and Robert M. Gates Chair in Intelligence and National Security, at Texas A&M University’s George H.W. Bush School of Government and Public Service, January 2008, “China's Challenge to US Hegemony” Current History, ProQuest)
China's rise affects the United States …a tempting strategic option.



=Heg Bad - Prolif= 

**Unipolarity causes nuclear balancing – multipolarity is the only way to ensure security** 
Monteiro 12 (Nuno P. Monteiro is an Assistant Professor of Political Science at Yale University, where he teaches International Relations theory, security studies, and the philosophical foundations of the study of politics. He earned a Ph.D. in Political Science from the University of Chicago, Dr. Monteiro is a research fellow at Yale’s Whitney and Betty MacMillan Center for International and Area Studies and a member of the Scientific Council of thePortuguese International Relations Institute, Winter 2011/2012“Unrest Assured – why unipolarity is not peaceful” www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00064)
In an international system with …seek to become major powers.


**Prolif causes all-out nuclear war** 
Utgoff 02 Victory, Deputy Director of the Strategy, Forces, and Resources Division of the Institute for Defense Analysis, Survival, Summer pp. 87-90
In sum, widespread proliferation …or even whole nations.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]