<span style="font-size: 16px;">I value **morality.** </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Non ends based standards fail this test because</span>
# <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Means can't resolve competing claims. </span>
# <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Laws always violate rights. </span>

<span style="font-size: 16px;">ADDITIONALLY, </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Prefer ends based conceptions of morality because,</span>
# <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Ends provide a Universal guide to action.</span>
# <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Non ends based standards claim we can assign singular responsibility to a single actor</span>
# <span style="font-family: Calibri;">Only ends exist anyway. Acts are just a series of causes and effects, and are therefore just a collection of ends. </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">AND, </span>
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Plan debates are theoretically preferable because, </span>
# **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Stable Advocacy:</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">. </span>
# **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Critical Thinking: </span>**
# **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Real World:</span>**

<span style="font-size: 16px;">Thus, the Counter Plan,</span>
# **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Text:</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> The United States federal government will extend all constitutional due process rights excluding the right to refuse to answer any questions or make any statements and the right protecting against searches and seizures without written warrants to non-citizens accused of terrorism. I reserve the right to clarify. </span>

# **<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Competition:</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> Because same is defined as “being one without addition, change, or discontinuance</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: Calibri;">: identical” </span><span style="font-family: Calibri;">(Merriam Webster).</span>

**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Uniqueness</span>**

<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> a. If the 5th Amendment right against self-incrimination cannot be violated.</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri;"> b. </span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">The Fourth Amendment, which outlines procedure for search and seizure, makes convicting terrorists is impossible. </span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 18.6667px;">Franck</span><span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;"> (</span>//<span style="font-size: 8px;">Franck, Thomas. "Criminals, Combatants, or What? An Examination of the Role of Law in Responding to the Threat of Terror." The American Journal of International Law `(2004): n. pag. Print.)</span>//
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 8px;">,</span>**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">the "due process"...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">danger of retaliation.</span>__**</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 16px;">Solvency</span>


<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 18.6667px;">RAND</span>
//<span style="font-size: 8px;">[1] This research brief describes work done for the RAND Corporation's continuing program of self-initiated independent research documented in How Terrorist Groups End: Lessons for Countering al Qa'ida, by Seth G. Jones and Martin C. Libicki, MG-741-RC, 2008, 252 pp., ISBN: 978-0-8330-4465-5 (Full Document).</span>//<span class="highlight2">//<span style="font-family: Calibri; font-size: 8px;">. </span>//</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>__<span style="font-size: 16px;"> **By analyzing a ....**</span>__**__police and intelligence agencies.__** </span>


**<span style="font-family: Calibri;">Impact. </span>**

<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 16px;">A terrorist attack escalates to a global nuclear exchange</span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">Speice </span>**</span>
**<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;"> (</span>**<span style="font-size: 8px;">Speice 06 – 06 JD Candidate @ College of William and Mary [Patrick F. Speice, Jr., “NEGLIGENCE AND NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION: ELIMINATING THE CURRENT LIABILITY BARRIER TO BILATERAL U.S.-RUSSIAN ` NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS,” __William & Mary Law Review__, February 2006, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427]))</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**__<span style="font-size: 16px;">is a significant ...</span>__****<span style="font-size: 16px;">__<span style="font-size: 16px;">escalate to the use of nuclear weapons</span>__</span>****<span style="font-size: 18.6667px;">. </span>**</span>
<span style="text-align: justify;">**Zedillo.** </span>
<span style="text-align: justify;"> </span>
**(****<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Ernesto Zedillo, Former President of Mexico Director, Yale Center for the Study of Globalization, FORBES, January 9, 2006, p. 25)</span>**
<span style="text-align: justify;"> **__<span style="font-size: 16px;">We all should have...</span>__****__<span style="font-size: 16px;">of another dark age.</span>__**</span>