[[toc]]
=cps= 
==terrocratz== 
===1nc gov pic=== 

**[Text: Vikram and I advocate the United States federal terrocrats should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure accessibility investment.]**

**“Government” doesn’t exist – the word is a lie that hides individual responsibility and legitimizes physical violence.**
Frederick **Mann**, B.A., Communications @ Sanford University; Founder, Terra Libra, 19**98**, “‘The Nature of Government’.”
Human Nature and [...] justify their actions.

**This turns the case. Replacing “government” with “terrocrat” avoids the link.**
Frederick **Mann**, B.A., Communications @ Sanford University; Founder, Terra Libra, 19**98**, “‘The Nature of Government’.”
"But to tear [...] definition of "government!"

==consult the tribes== 
===1nc consult the tribes=== 

**[CP TEXT: United States Department of Transportation ought to enter into prior, binding and ongoing consultation with the Tribal governments on whether the United States federal government ought to substantially increase its relationally planned transportation infrastructure with the possibility of minor modifications during and after implementation and abide by the results of that consultation.]**

**We’ll clarify.**

**CP solves case – this card is from the DOT means the CP’s super-predictable**
**Department of Transportation**, February 17th, 20**10** (United States Department of Transportation, “U.S. Department of Transportation Tribal Consultation Plan,” http://www.dot.gov/sites/dot.dev/files/docs/DOT_Tribal_Consultation_Plan.pdf >:)
The USDOT issued Order 5301.1, “Department of Transportation Programs, Policies, and Procedures Affecting American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Tribes” on November 16, 1999. This Order affirms the Department’s and the USDOT Modal Administrations’ unique legal relationship with Indian tribes, establishes the Department’s consultation and coordination process with Indian tribes for any action that may significantly or uniquely affect them, and lists goals for Modal Administrations to meet when carrying out policies, programs, and activities affecting American Indians, Alaska Natives, and tribes. The requirements established for Modal Administrations under this Order are designed to recognize Indian statutory preferences in employment, Federal financial assistance arrangements, and contracting; respond to the transportation concerns of Indian tribes related to environmental justice, children’s safety and environmental health risks, occupational health and safety, and environmental matters; foster opportunities for hiring tribal members and increasing participation in Federal training activities; include tribal colleges and universities in Departmental educational, research, and program activities; and treat correspondence from leaders of Indian tribes in the same manner as Congressional correspondence. The Department affirms its commitment to these principles, and those set forth in Executive Order 13175 and the President’s November 5, 2009 memorandum, in establishing this plan of actions.

**Net benefit – bringing tribal perspectives into transportation policy is uniquely key to native sovereignty**
**Department of Transportation**, February 17th, 20**10** (United States Department of Transportation, “U.S. Department of Transportation Tribal Consultation Plan,” http://www.dot.gov/sites/dot.dev/files/docs/DOT_Tribal_Consultation_Plan.pdf >:)
The United States government has a unique legal relationship with Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments as set forth in the Constitution of the United States, treaties, statutes, and court decisions. The Federal government recognizes the right of self-determination for Indian tribal governments and the obligation to work with Indian tribal governments in a government-to-government relationship. As an executive agency, the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) has a responsibility and is committed to working with Indian tribal governments in this unique relationship, respecting tribal sovereignty and self-determination.

**Failure to consult means racist transportation-planning practices will render Native Americans invisible**
Robert D. **Bullard**, Glenn S. **Johnson and** Angel O. **Torres**, Publish 20**04**, Bullard has a Bachelor's degree in Government at Alabama A&M University, in 1968. His M.A. in Sociology was earned at Atlanta University, in 1972. Bullard obtained his Ph.D. in Sociology at Iowa State University, in 1976, Johnson is an Associate Professor at Clark Atlanta University, Torres is part of the M.C.P. (City Planning), Geographic Information Systems Training Specialist, Book Source: "Highway Robbery Transportation Racism And New Routes to Equity", Page 18-19:)
In their attempt to test the reality of the Brown decision, the Freedom Riders never made it to New Orleans. Instead they were met by angry white mobs and racist police. Nevertheless, no amount of government sanctioned violence could dampen the spirits and iron will of the freedom fighters. Suffering beatings and fire-bombings at the hands of mobs and police, more than four hundred Freedom Riders had been arrested by late summer 1961 for fighting transportation racism.' The combined efforts of civil rights groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), Student Nonviolent coordinating Committee (SNCC), Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), Nashville Christian Leadership Conference (NCLC), Alabama Christian Movement for Human Rights, and National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) prompted the Kennedy Administration to provide federal protection for the Freedom Riders and forced the Kennedy Administration to take a stand on civil rights. More importantly, the "Freedom Riders generated movement activity and music, helping educate and galvanize the black community for protest."" Race Matters Although the US has made tremendous strides in civil rights, race still matters in America.0 In his classic book Invisible Man, Ralph Ellison illustrated that white racism not only harms individuals, but it also renders black people and their communities invisible." By one definition, white racism is the "socially organized set of attitudes, ideas, and practices that deny African Americans and other people of color the dignity, opportunities, freedoms, and rewards that this nation offers white Americans."14 Racism combines with public policies and industry practices to provide benefits for whites while shifting costs to people of coloris Many racist acts and practices are institutionalized informally and in some cases become standard public policy. For decades, it was legal and common practice for transit agencies to operate separate and unequal systems for whites and blacks and for city, county, and state government officials to use tax dollars to provide transportation amenities for white communities while denying the same services to black communities. American cities continue to be racially polarized. Residential apartheid is the dominant housing pattern for most African Americans still the most segregated ethnic group in the country. Nowhere is this separate society contrast more apparent than in the nation's central cities and large metropolitan areas. Urban America typifies the costly legacy of slavery, Jim Crow, and institutionalized discrimination:6 America's dirty secret, institutionalized racism is part of our national heritage:7 Racism is a potent tool for sorting people into their physical environmenti8 St. Claire Drake and Horace R. Cayton, in their 1945 groundbreaking Black Metropolis, documented the role racism played in creating Chicago's South Side ghetto.'9 In 1965, psychologist Kenneth Clark proclaimed that racism created our nation's "dark ghettos."2° In 1968, the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders, the Kerner Commission, reported that "white society is deeply implicated in the ghetto" and that "white institutions created it, white institutions maintain it, and white society condones it."2' The black ghetto is kept contained and isolated from the larger white society through well-defined institutional practices, private actions, and government policies." Even when the laws change, some discriminatory practices remain. Some contend that "racism is an integral, permanent, and indestructible component of this society."" Permanent or not, racism continues to be a central factor in explaining the social inequality, political exploitation, social isolation, and the poor health of people of color in the United States. Furthermore, contemporary race relations in America can no longer be viewed in the black-white paradigm. Racism makes the daily life experiences of most African Americans, Latino Americans, Native Americans, and Asian and Pacific Islander Americans very different from that of most white Americans. Modern racism must be understood as an everyday lived experience.24 Not having reliable public transportation can mean the difference between gainful employment and a life of poverty in the ghettos and barrios. Since most do not have cars, transportation is even more crucial for the vulnerable population that is moving from welfare to work. Training, skills, and jobs are meaningless if millions of Americans can't get to work. Of course, it would be ideal if job centers were closer to the homes of inner-city residents, but few urban core neighborhoods have experienced an economic revitalization that can rival the current jobs found in the suburbs. Transportation remains a major stumbling block for many to achieve self-sufficiency. It boils down to "no transportation, no job," and, more often than not, public transportation does not connect urban residents to jobs. Transportation policies did not emerge in a race- and class-neutral society. Transportation-planning outcomes often reflected the biases of their originators with the losers comprised largely of the poor, powerless, and people of color.

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]