[[toc]]
=<span style="line-height: 24px;">Security</span>= 
==<span style="line-height: 24px;">1NC</span>== 


**<span style="background-color: white;">The affirmative’s securitization of supposed threats creates a self-fulfilling prophesy of global enmity ending in extinction. Realism and violence are not inevitable – the alternative is to </span>reject the affirmative and their representations of the technological need to securitize space.**

**<span style="background-color: white;">Mack 88 –</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;"> MD Psychiatrist and Professor at Harvard Medical School (August 13, 1998, John Mack, “The Enemy System,” Published in the Lancet,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://johnemackinstitute.org/1988/08/the-enemy-system-short-version/</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">) CB</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="Underline">threat of nuclear annihilation … </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, then we would have war”.</span>


=<span style="line-height: 24px;">Taoism</span>= 
==<span style="line-height: 24px;">1NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Living in accord with the Tao precludes taking action to prevent death. As mere humans, we are blind to the overarching meaning of the universe and thus any action we take is unproductive and immoral. </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Once upon a time, several years … correctly said, especially not — ourselves.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Their calls to save humanity are based on a flawed fear of death and a misunderstanding of the continuous nature of the universe.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 98</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> - Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "’RESPONSIBLE NON-ACTION’ IN A NATURAL WORLD : PERSPECTIVES FROM THE NEI-YEH, CHUANG-TZU, AND TAO-TE CHING" HARVARD CONFERENCE ON TAOISM AND ECOLOGY CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But by this definition, </span>the … <span style="font-size: 8pt;">he or she originally emerged.</span>


**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">The alternative is to embrace the practice of Wu Wei, or “doing nothing” in order to appreciate the flow of the Tao – only through appreciating the natural order of life can we live according to Taoism.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif;">Kirkland 96</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> – Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA (1996, Russell Kirkland, Ph.D. in East Asian Languages and Cultures, specialist in Asian Religions, Associate Professor of Religion at UGA, "The Book of the Way," 24-29 CB)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The focus of the Daode … </span><span class="Underline">can thwart its unceasing operation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=<span style="line-height: 24px;">Nietzsche</span>= 
==<span style="line-height: 24px;">1NC</span>== 
**The ascetic ideal is life denying—causing us to join forces with suffering and death. Nietzsche calls upon us to affirm the chaotic elements of life and create meaning __despite__ inevitable suffering.**
**Scott, 90** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Charles E., professor of Philosophy at Pennsylvania State University, “The Question of Ethics: Nietzsche, Foucault, Heidegger,” Ed. John Sallis, p. 173-174)</span>

__One pathogenic aspect of our … not in spite of, the chaos__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


<span style="font-size: 10pt;">**The total wars inherent to liberalism pose the greatest threat of extinction**</span>
**Celermajer 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Danielle Celermajer, Professor of Human Rights at University of Sydney, “If Islam is our other, who are 'we'?”, http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_hb3359/is_1_42/ai_n29344394/?tag=content;col1, Autumn, 2007)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The moral tenor of the … word 'humanity', wants to cheat."</span>


**Disorder and insecurity are inevitable because we live in a dangerous world. Efforts to control this fear have resulted in the deaths of millions and the creation of WMDs. The alternative is a negative gesture of indifference—we must learn to live with the world as it is. This allows us to break out of the death cycle.**
**Der Derian, 98**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (James, (Political Science Professor, University of Massachusetts) On Security, ed: Lipschitz, The Value of Security: Hobbes, Marx, Nietzsche, and Baudrillard, Decentering Security). </span>

__No other concept in international …__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">identities calcifying into a fearful sameness. </span>