[[toc]]
=Dam Removal - Brophy= 
==1NC== 
<span class="Underline">**Over 90% of fish survive**</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bonneville Power Administration and Department of Energy 09 [BPA, “Power benefi ts of the lower Snake River dams”, Bonneville Power Administration, January 2009, </span>[[http://www.clearwaterpower.com/content/WYSIWYG/Power%20Benefits%20of%20the%20Lower%20Snake%20River%20Dams.pdf]]<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> AD]</span>

Under the FCRPS Biological Opinion, the Snake River dams must meet standards of 96 percent survival for juvenile<span class="Underline"> fish that migrate through the dams in the spring </span>and 93 percent survival for summer migrants.

**Dirty energy like coal will replace the dams as energy sources – takes out the aff**
**Bonneville Power Administration and Department of Energy 09** [BPA, “Power benefi ts of the lower Snake River dams”, Bonneville Power Administration, January 2009, [[http://www.clearwaterpower.com/content/WYSIWYG/Power%20Benefits%20of%20the%20Lower%20Snake%20River%20Dams.pdf]]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Under the Council’s Fifth Power Plan, the region already plans to achieve all cost-effective conservation (estimated at 2,500 aMW), plus 5,100 MW of new wind power. (The Council plans to issue its Sixth Power Plan in 2009.) In addition to conservation and renewables</span>__, the Council estimates the region could need additional coal, coal gasification and natural gas resources to meet expected load growth. Therefore, replacing the power from the four lower Snake River dams likely would increase the amount of thermal resources in the region’s power mix. Because these dams are primarily used to meet peak power loads, it would be necessary to replace not only the energy, but the peak capacity__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (3,100 MW) power they now provide. Natural gas-fi red combustion turbines likely would be the most cost-effective resource to replace energy from the lower Snake River dams. They would likely be required in all alternatives to replace the 3,100 MW capacity value of the dams. Based on Council-updated wholesale power price forecasts from March 2008, replacing power from the four lower Snake River dams would cost the Northwest: $444 million to $501 million a year if the dams were replaced with natural gas-fi red generation. $759 million to $837 million a year if the dams were replaced with a combination of wind, natural gas and energy efficiency.</span>

Piecemeal dam removal is not enough
<span class="Heading4Char">Higgs 02</span>, JD, now an associate in the Perkins Cole Environment, Energy, and Resources Group, et al, (Stephen Higgs, then a conservation assistant at American Rivers, and edited by Elizabeth Maclin and Margaret Bowman of //American Rivers// and Angela Bednarek of the //University of Pennsylvania//. February 2002.”THE ECOLOGY OF DAM REMOVAL: A Summary of Benefits and Impacts”, http://www.michigandnr.com/PUBLICATIONS/PDFS/fishing/dams/EcologyofDamRemoval.pdf)
__It is important to consider that on rivers with several dams__<span class="Underline">, </span>efforts to breach one dam may not<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> significantly restore river continuity__, due to the combined effect of other dams that continue to__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __prevent fish migration____.__<span style="font-size: 5pt;">62 For example, in 1963, the removal of the Washington Water Power</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 5pt;"> Dam on the Clearwater River in Idaho helped to improve Chinook salmon habitat.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>__Unfortunately, downstream dams on the Snake and Columbia Rivers continue to thwart the__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __species ability to return to the sea____.63 In promoting fish migration, rivers often need to be restored__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __as entire units and not as fragmented pieces.__

**Dams are net-better for the fish**
**Barker 12** (Robert, August 22, “Fisheries scientists redefine the salmon debate by trumpeting more ‘spill’”, [[http://www.idahostatesman.com/2012/04/22/2087353/saving-salmon-without-removing.html]])
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Increasing the amount of </span>__water spilled over__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> eight </span>__Snake__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Columbia river dams to </span>__keep__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> juvenile </span>__fish away from hydroelectric turbines__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">might be </span>__enough to recover most of Idaho’s endangered salmon populations without breaching dams, **new studies suggest.**__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">A state, tribal and federal science team that has been working since 1996 is urging federal fish and wildlife officials and dam managers to change their management to test the theory, which is based on a dramatic increase in data collected over the past decade.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “The </span>__fish are talking to us and we’re getting better at listening__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to what they’re telling us,” said Ed Bowles, chief of fisheries for the Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>__research suggests__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that a 15 percent to 20 percent increase in the amount of water that now </span>__spills over__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the </span>__dams__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — for a total flow of just more than half the rivers’ water — </span>**__would more than double the number of salmon that survive__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to return to spawn. </span>__That’s enough to support sustainable populations__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of wild stocks of chinook and steelhead within 48 years.</span>


**Human-centeredness can become a starting point for better environmental practices**
**Lee 09, Philosophy Professor at Bloomsburg, (Wendy, Spring, “Restoring Human-Centerednes to Environmental Conscience: The Ecocentrist's Dilemma, the Role of Heterosexualized Anthropomorphizing, and the Significance of Language to Ecological Feminism” Ethics and the Environment, Vol 14 No 1, Project Muse)**
__The right response to the Ecocentrist's dilemma is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to simply cut what is really just a chimerical Gordian knot by </span>__severing centeredness from chauvinism__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, a task made simple when we realize that </span>__the former does not__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, in fact, </span>__imply the latter__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. So </span>__why, then, have more environmental philosophers not taken this course? I think part of the answer lay in taking too little seriously__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—despite protestations to the contrary—the specifically embodied, raced, sexed, gendered, and epistemically situated configuration of capacities and limitations we really are. It is one thing to assert our physical "encapsulation," but quite another to explore of what this consists—especially in light of the social and political institutions that inform specifically human experience. Ironically, </span>__what the ecocentrist fails to adequately appreciate is precisely what ecofeminists have long recognized__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, namely, </span>__the extent to which our physical dependency informs our very experience of the world not merely as corporeal, but as raced, sexed, and gendered__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">—these too form a crucial aspect of residence or place. Liberated from this two-headed bull, </span>__we are now in a position to craft better tools for the critique of practices and institutions that concern environmental activists across virtually any approach not committed to ecocentrism__ __(ecofeminism, environmental pragmatism, the stewardship movement). My aims__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, then, </span>__are to articulate a human-centered environmental conscience capable of sustaining the activism we want without wasting precious time and energy in the forlorn effort to deny our human experience. It includes an implicit sensibility for matters of social justice precisely because its aim is to comprehend the relationship between environmental destruction; the human institutions responsible for such destruction; and the effects on human beings, nonhuman, animals, and the ecological systems upon which we all depend__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Such an approach can show that </span>__matters of social justice are such an intimate part of understanding the causes of environmental destruction that any theory that eschews the former is likely to distort its evaluation of the latter__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.6 Taking, then, the concept of "liberation" as my point of departure, my next task is to articulate [End Page 41] in just what such </span>__better__ __tools__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> consist, and why they </span>__make possible a more effective environmental activism__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

**Human-centeredness is inevitable – they can’t solve**
**Lee 09, Philosophy Professor at Bloomsburg, ‘9 (Wendy, Spring, “Restoring Human-Centerednes to Environmental Conscience: The Ecocentrist's Dilemma, the Role of Heterosexualized Anthropomorphizing, and the Significance of Language to Ecological Feminism” Ethics and the Environment, Vol 14 No 1, Project Muse)**
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">However plastic and evolving </span>__the somatic, perceptual, cognitive, psychological, epistemic and affective capacities__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> native to Homo sapiens, they </span>__are still specific to human—____and not Chimpanzee or dolphin—being. Human consciousness is__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, in other words, </span>__informed by the unique articulation and interaction of capacities that characterize human embodiment, capacities whose exercise creates the conditions for human experience__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. To be clear, I am not suggesting that what defines human-centeredness is that human beings have capacities that other species of creatures do not—this may or may not be true given any particular comparison. What I am suggesting is that </span>__the unique configuration of capacities that describes Homo sapiens informs an experience unique to this species and thereby define this consciousness in terms of this configuration. A human-centered consciousness cannot then be displaced, disavowed, or disowned—the notion that we could get "outside" of human centeredness makes as little sense as the notion that there's an "outside" for human consciousness__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (other than permanent coma or death). Hence, </span>__I can care profoundly about the welfare of chimpanzees__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—I can try to imagine what it might be like to be a chimpanzee, and I might make excellent guesses given all of the perceptual, somatic, and psychological similarities we do appear to share in light of the behavioral, anatomical, and other evidence. </span>__But I cannot experience the world like a chimpanzee because there is no "outside" to my experience as a member of Homo sapiens.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">2¶ Philosophy of language and empirically oriented philosophies of mind/brain may offer the most persuasive support for this position. Douglas Hofstadter argues, for example, that </span>__part of what distinguishes human beings from other species of animal is our specifically linguistic capacity for the crafting of analogies: "We human beings begin life as rather austere analogy-makers__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—our set of categories is terribly sparse, and each category itself is hardly well-honed. Categories grow sharper and sharper and ever more flexible and subtle as we age, and of course fantastically [End Page 31] more numerous" (2000, 121). Similarly, Nicholas Wade argues that </span>__the aboriginal click languages still in use in South Africa demonstrate a capacity for the development of language and its acquisition unique even to ancient human communities__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (2004, 191–4). In their now famous work, Philosophy in the Flesh, George Lakoff and Mark Johnson argue that </span>__human beings "are the only animals we know of who can ask, and sometimes even explain, why things happen the way they do. We are the only animals who ponder the meaning of their existence and who worry constantly about love, sex, work, death, and morality.__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> And </span>__we appear to be the only animals who can reflect critically on their lives in order to make changes in how they behave__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">" (1999, 551).¶ The most persuasive argument, however, may come from philosopher of mind, Daniel Dennett who, in Consciousness Explained (1991) asks:¶ Do our selves, our nonminimal selfy selves, exhibit the same permeability and flexibility of boundaries as the simpler selves of other creatures? Do we expand our personal boundaries—the boundaries of our selves—to enclose any of our "stuff"? In general, perhaps, no, but there are certainly times when this seems true, psychologically…. So sometimes we enlarge our boundaries; at other times, in response to perceived challenges real or imaginary, we let our boundaries shrink…. I have reminded you of these familiar speeches to draw out the similarities between ourselves and the selves of ants and hermit crabs…</span>__Ants and hermit crabs don't talk. The hermit crab is designed in such a way as to see to it that it acquires a shell, and hence, in a very weak sense, tacitly represents the crab as having a shell, but the crab does not in any stronger sense represent itself as having a shell. It doesn't go in for self-representation at all__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>

**The salmon population are the biggest they’ve ever been**
**PNWA 07** (Pacific northwest waterways association, “Dam Breaching Is Not the Answer”, 12/12/2007 00:34:42, advocating for federal funding of our region's navigation projects and public policy to improve the economic efficiency, http://www.pnwa.net/new/Articles/Dam_Breaching_Is_Not_The_Answer.pdf)phol
__Fish returns are the highest on__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __record__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __Adult salmon returns past Bonneville__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __dam for each of the years 2001-2004__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __were the highest on record since counts__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __began in 1938__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Adult returns were down </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2005, yet, at over one million fish, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> they were the second highest on record </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> prior to the dramatic increase in 2001. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __Put another way, the salmon returns__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __over the last five years were the first,__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __second, third, fourth and sixth highest__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __ever recorded__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">past Bonneville Dam. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Juvenile survival through the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> system is higher than ever </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Dam breach advocates have said that </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the decline in juvenile fish survival in the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 1970s was due to the building of the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Snake River dams. </span>__Improvements at the__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __dams have increased survival three-fold__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __since the seventies. Survival today is as__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __high, or higher, than it was in the 1960s,__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span> __before the last four dams were built__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

**Alt fails – they can’t convince people to change**
**Lee 09, Philosophy Professor at Bloomsburg, (Wendy, Spring, “Restoring Human-Centerednes to Environmental Conscience: The Ecocentrist's Dilemma, the Role of Heterosexualized Anthropomorphizing, and the Significance of Language to Ecological Feminism” Ethics and the Environment, Vol 14 No 1, Project Muse)**
__Bender__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> undertakes this task in the course of promoting his specific version of ecocentrism that he calls "</span>__nondualism__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">" but it is telling that, instead of offering an argument that provides grounds for rejecting the "dualism" of experiencing subject and experienced object, he </span>__resorts to an experience of "nonduality__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">": I start out…in ordinary, dualistic, waking consciousness, feeling myself a subject amidst myriad objects around me, each experienced as other. I discover I do not exist independently, but am like a node in a web, through which diverse kinds of energy flow. For example, I [End Page 35] take in the Sun's warmth, the in-breath, food, water, human speech, and so on. Meanwhile, I expel many kinds of energy. Like the out-breath, speech, bodily movements, and excreta. The energy I take in and expel circulates everywhere on Earth, passing through others as through myself. Thus I discover my connectedness to all other beings, such that I, like they, am but one manifestation of this energy flow, of planet Earth…. Nonduality emerges as I realize further that natural phenomena are Earth transiently manifest, empty of substantive selfhood (objectivity), since everything is dependently co-originated. Thus, though I am precisely emptiness of substantive or independent selfhood; even so, as one particular manifold of relations, I am unique. (2003, 435) The difficulties here are three-fold: First, </span>__this isn't an argument, but rather an experiential narrative__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, hence it would be folly to think it could establish anything other than that someone can have such an experience. But since such could be motivated by, say, exhaustion, illness, or the use of narcotics, </span>__it hardly establishes any metaphysical claim about the nature of identity or being—much less about any capacity to dissociate oneself from "substantive selfhood__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." Second, </span>__however much he may feel himself to be "empty of substantive selfhood" Bender's use of "I' suggests that he confuses the capacity to conceive with the capacity to actually be so emptied. It's one thing to conceive of myself as connected to all other beings__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—indeed I do so conceive myself, I know this in the abstract to be true and I know of no evidence that contradicts it. </span>__It is__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">, however, </span>__quite another thing to experience myself as emptied of selfhood__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Moreover, </span>__it is simply false that what I can conceive, imagine, think, or even describe is necessarily something I can experience__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> per se. Third, although Bender's appeals to intuition, mystical insight, Spinoza's notion of particulars as manifestations of nature (2003, 434–5), or Buddhist inspired meditation (2003, 436–7) might be compelling for someone already convinced that so-called nondualist identification with nonhuman nature is possible, </span>__these hardly suffice as an argument convincing to the skeptic who may not share the necessary presuppositions or traditions__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Here too, then, </span>__Bender's account is unconvincing—the ethical norm he derives from it__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (among others), "Form one body with all beings!" </span>__is likely to be mystifying to anyone unconvinced we can make this leap of faith from centeredness to "one body" or__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (as the moral dictum requires) </span>__from the "I" of subject-object dualism to the disavowal of my body__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. [End Page 36] Moreover, if I am right that there are good reasons to take the specifically embodied configuration of capacities and limitations that describe human being seriously, </span>__no such dissociation from "I" is possible__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">—in fact, </span>__it intimates precisely the dualism Bender rejects. However deep my feelings__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (spiritual sensibilities, affectionate sentiments, desires to connect) </span>__go with respect to my appreciation of natural objects and phenomena, I nonetheless remain at the center of my embodied consciousness—and cannot be/do otherwise__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. Hence, </span>__one more version of the ecocentrist's dilemma: the dissociation of self demanded__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> by the moral maxim "form one body with all things" </span>__assumes that I can dissociate my consciousness from my body—what else to call this but dualism? The notion that I could dissociate myself without dissociating myself from my situated body to be "one with all things" is comprehensible only if I am not (at least essentially) my body, but rather a consciousness that, even if not fully independent, is capable of not merely conceiving but experiencing "my" body as something other than bound by my own skin, that is, as not my body. Hence I must be dual—a "mind" that, in virtue of its capacity to empty itself of its "substantive selfhood," is merely in a dissociable body__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">. No doubt, Bender would find this objection to his view onerous. However, when he advises us to try to expand our selves through, for example, meditation or to encompass an ever-wider set of relations with and to human and nonhuman others (2003, 423–4), it is hard to see how his view does not fit the dualist shoe. He writes that "[s]uch a practice, over time, should transform your sense of who you are as you discover you are not the separate skin-encapsulated individual you once thought you were, but that you belong to all other living beings, and that other beings are not really other, and that you yourself are not really the center of concern." </span>__(2003, 424, my emphasis)__ <span style="font-size: 6pt;">Again, </span>__Bender confuses what I can conceive with what I can experience—I can conceive myself as "not the center of concern," but not an iota of this moral recognition either requires or makes possible an experience of myself as anything other than "skin encapsulated__<span style="font-size: 6pt;">." Bender hasn't, moreover, the luxury of trading in his metaphysical commitments for the option that he's speaking "merely" phenomenologically or metaphorically. For neither the environmental pragmatist, who would likely deny the need to undertake such a practice in order to have a stake in the future of human [End Page 37] consciousness, nor those who engage in such practices without a smidgeon of the environmental activism Bender hopes will follow, are likely to be moved by anything but an argument for nondualism—and this Bender does not provide.</span>

Removal only solves 4 of 13 endangered salmon
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Wheelihan 12</span>, CEO of Montana Electric Cooperatives’ Association, (Dave, chief executive officer of the Great Falls-based Montana Electric Cooperatives' Association, “Big Skylights,” March 1, [[http://www.montanaco-ops.com/uploads/Big%20Skylights_2012/March%201%202012%20Little%20Skylights.pdf]], LVS)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">RiverPartners, a Portland, Ore.-based nonprofit represents utilities, businesses and tribes with a stake in the expense of the measures to protect salmon. </span><span class="Underline">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Environmentalists have been litigating salmon plans, none of which is yet fully approved and the courts, for more than 20 years</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One of the latest initiatives is to remove all the dams on the snake River. “Not only would that affect the use of generation of power but also the use of water for irrigation and agriculture and transportation, including barge traffic that keeps 700,000 trucks off the road every year,” Flores said. “The snake River dams provide 1,100 MW of power, enough to light up the city of Seattle 24-7.” </span>Even if <span class="Underline">the </span>dams were removed<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, she said, </span>it would only affect four stocks of the 13 stocks of salmon considered endangered for the purpose of environmental plans.