[[toc]]

=Savannah PIC= 
==1NC== 
The United States federal government should fund port dredging initiatives at the Port of Jacksonville, the Port of Miami, the Port of New York and New Jersey, the Port of Charleston, and the lower Mississippi.

The counterplan competes – “expedited” is a term of art --- the plan funds all five of the expedited port dredging initiatives.
**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">White House 12 </span>**<span style="font-family: Arial;">(“We Can’t Wait: Obama Administration Announces 5 Major Port Projects to Be Expedited,” July 19,</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">[[http://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-office/2012/07/19/we-can-t-wait-obama-administration-announces-5-major-port-projects-be-ex]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial;">)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">WASHINGTON, DC – Today, as part of its **__We Can’t Wait__** initiative, </span><span class="UnderlineBold">the Administration announced that 7 nationally and regionally significant infrastructure projects will be expedited to help modernize and expand 5 major ports in the United States,</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;"> including the Port of </span><span class="UnderlineBold">Jacksonville, the Port of Miami, the Port of Savannah, the Port of New York and New Jersey, and the Port of Charleston</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Arial; font-size: 9pt;">. As part of a Presidential Executive Order issued in March of this year, the Office of Management and Budget is charged with overseeing a government-wide effort to make the permitting and review process for infrastructure projects more efficient and effective, saving time while driving better outcomes for local communities. These are the first 7 of the initial 43 projects that will be expedited by the Executive Order – additional expedited infrastructure projects will be announced in the coming weeks.</span>




**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, The counterplan solves the case without dredging Savannah </span>**

**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">Business Monitor 11</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Business Monitor Online, “Obama's Budget Proposal Buries East-Coast Dredging Hopes,” February 16)</span>



<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">We believe that the disappointed port authorities would do well to look at the port of Baltimore, which recently announced that it is due to complete its US$105mn dredging project two years ahead of schedule. Baltimore's dredging project has been made possible by a public-private partnership (PPP) with Ports America signed in 2009. The port authority was fully aware that the state of Maryland could not afford to pay for the major works involved in dredging, and instead signed a PPP deal, which leased the port's Seagirt terminal to Ports America for 30 years and specifically required it to deepen the terminal to 15.2m. The project is now on course to be finished ahead of schedule. BMI notes that </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">even if federal funding for east-coast dredging was granted, and work began in less than a year, the projects would likely extend into 2016</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> if carried out by the US Army Corps of Engineers, </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">meaning </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">dredging would not be finished until roughly two years after Post-Panamax ships are expected to begin using the expanded</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">Panama </span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">Canal</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. However, while BMI understands the port authorities' disappointment with the budget proposal, we believe that </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">all is not lost for east-coast ports if they fail to dredge in time</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> for 2014. </span>__<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">Not all ports can become hubs for vessels coming through the canal</span>____<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">. Rather, we believe</span>____<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">ships could unload some cargo at deeper ports, such as Charleston or Norfolk, before calling at shallower ports such as </span>__**<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">Savannah</span>** **<span style="background-color: lime; font-family: Arial;">when they are a few feet lighter and do not need a very deep dredge</span>**<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. We have previously stated our belief that although deeper and better prepared ports will get a bigger slice of the pie, </span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">the increase in traffic that comes with the expansion of the Panama Canal will be such that most east-coast ports will benefit</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, Turn – The plan destroys the environment</span>**

**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Southern Environmental Law Center</span>__**__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial;"> 12</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> ( “Defending the Savannah River,” Summer, </span><span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.southernenvironment.org/uploads/menu/sc_handout.pdf]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">Over the years, </span><span class="Underline">successive </span>dredging of the Savannah River has allowed saltwater from the Atlantic to chip away at freshwater marshes<span class="Underline"> in the Savannah National Wildlife Refuge</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">—</span><span class="Underline">and even more of </span>this valuable resource will be lost if the Army Corps of Engineers is allowed to move forward with its plan to deepen 38 miles of the river.The project is part of a scramble<span class="Underline"> by U.S. ports </span>to attract a larger class of container ships<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> that will come through the Panama Canal when its expansion is completed in 2014. SELC is making certain that the Corps does what federal law requires: </span>conduct a regional assessment<span class="Underline"> to determine which ports can be expanded at the least expense and with the least damage to natural resources</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">—</span>rather than pour scarce taxpayer dollars into one of the most environmentally destructive projects currently proposed<span class="Underline"> in the Southeast</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And, The plan causes chain reaction extinction throughout the foodchain.</span>**

__<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial;">Coastal Conservation League 11</span>__<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (“TO Dredge OR Not To Dredge: The Future of the Savannah River in a Post-Panamax World,”</span>[[http://coastalconservationleague.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/312066.pdf|__http://coastalconservationleague.org/wp-content/uploads/2009/10/312066.pdf__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

Not only will the proposed deepening compromise drinking water supplies, it will also lower oxygen levels in the river.Less oxygen will harm wildlife populations and create a domino effect through the food chain<span class="Underline"> and river system</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">, even </span>creating dead zones<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">, according to Jim Murphy, attorney for the National Wildlife Federation. </span>Given the expected damage<span class="Underline"> from lower oxygen levels after dredging, </span>the USACE proposes to put the Savannah River on mechanical respirators<span class="Underline"> that inject oxygen into the river</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> to prevent harm to river life. </span>The Environmental Protection Agency has already vetoed a similar type of “fix”<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> proposed for the Mississippi River. Sometimes called “bubblers” or “iron lungs,” </span><span class="Underline">the proposed two-story </span>mechanical respirators remain unproven<span class="Underline"> and are roundly dismissed by scientists</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. In spite of this, USACE is recommending ten mechanical respirators, and maybe more, to be placed in the Savannah River as mitigation for anticipated oxygen depletion. Endangered species in the river that depend on reliable levels of freshwater and oxygen, such as Shortnose sturgeon, are of particular concern</span><span class="Underline">. In response, USACE has </span>proposed “fish ladders<span class="Underline">” to encourage sturgeon to move farther upriver to reach freshwater. While fish ladders have proven successful for other species of fish, they </span>have never worked for shortnose sturgeon<span class="Underline">. </span>





**<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> Obligation to vote negative</span>**

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Watson</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial;">, </span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">President & Founder of the Sea Shpherd Conservation Society, 9-17-</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">6</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> (Paul, “The Politics of Extinction,” </span>[[http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html|__http://www.eco-action.org/dt/beerswil.html__]]<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;">)</span>

<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">EXTINCTION IS DIFFICULT TO APPRECIATE</span>

<span class="Underline">Gone forever are the European elephant, lion and tiger. The Labrador duck, giant auk, Carolina parakeet will never again grace this planet of ours</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. Lost for all time are the Atlantic grey whales, the Biscayan right whales and the Stellar sea cow. Our children will never look upon the California condor in the wild or watch the Palos Verde blue butterfly dart from flower to flower. </span>Extinction is a difficult concept to fully appreciate. What has been is no more and never shall be again<span class="Underline">. It would take another creation and billions of years to recreate the passenger pigeon.</span>It is the loss of billions of years of evolutionary programming. It is the destruction of beauty<span class="Underline">, the obliteration of truth, the </span>removal of uniqueness<span class="Underline">, the scarring of the sacred web of life </span>To be responsible for an extinction is to commit blasphemy against the divine<span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. It is </span><span class="Underline">the greatest of all possible crimes, more evil than murder,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> more appalling than genocide, </span>more monstrous than even the apparent unlimited perversities of the human mind<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">. </span>To be responsible for the complete and utter destruction of a unique<span class="Underline"> and sacred </span>life form<span class="Underline"> is arrogance that </span>seethes with evil<span style="background-color: aqua; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;">,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-family: Arial; font-size: 8pt;"> for the very opposite of evil is live. It is no accident that these two words spell out each other in reverse.</span>





==2NC== 
Because They Use The Past Tense of The Word “Expedite” They Plan Only Funds Ports That Have Already Been Fast-Tracked by The White House.
<span style="font-family: Arial;">Oxford Dictionaries 12(“Verb Tenses: Adding -Ed and –Ing,” Http:**__Oxforddictionaries.Com/Words/Verb-Tenses-Adding-Ed-and-Ing)__**</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia;">The </span><span class="UnderlineBold">basic form of a verb is called the infinitive</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia;">. It normally occurs with the word //to// as in ‘I want //to ask// you a question.’ </span><span class="UnderlineBold">Verbs may change their spelling according to which tense is being used.</span>
<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;">The **past tense** refers to things that happened in the past. </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">To make the past tense of regular verbs, the ending –ed is added to the infinitive</span><span style="color: #333333; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 10pt;"> ('I //asked// her a question'). The **present participle** refers to things that are still happening. To make the present participle, the ending //-ing// is added to the infinitive ('I am //asking// her a question').</span>



<span style="background-color: white;">**<span style="font-family: Helvetica; font-size: 12pt;">this Means That The Plan is Really Just a Shortened List That Includes All Five Ports That Have Already Been Expedited Which Includes Savannah – Not Including The Word “Expedited” and Listing Four of The Five Ports Means That The Permutation is Severance.</span>**</span>

<span style="background-color: white;">**__<span style="font-family: Arial;">States News Service 12</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: Arial;">(“Broun Praises Plan to Fast Track Deepening of Savannah Harbor,” July 20)</span>__**</span>

<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;">U.S. </span><span class="UnderlineBold">Congressman Paul Broun</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;">, M.D. (GA-10) </span><span class="UnderlineBold">today released the following statement after the White House announced that it would expedite the permitting and review process for the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project</span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;"> (SHEP). Deepening the channel at Savannah Harbor from its current depth of 42 feet to a depth of 47 feet is expected to result in a net annual benefit of $174 million to the nation:**“I** </span><span class="UnderlineBold">am thrilled that the Administration has chosen to make deepening the Savannah Harbor a priority,” </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;">said Broun.</span><span class="apple-converted-space" style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;"> </span><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;"> **“As one of the nation’s fastest growing container ports, the completion of the Savannah Harbor Expansion Project will create a boost to our state’s economy and put Americans back to work. It will also strengthen the international competiveness of U.S. businesses that rely on world trade to bring prosperity home to our citizens.”** </span></span>
<span style="background-color: white;"><span style="font-family: Verdana; font-size: 8.5pt;">SHEP is one of seven nationally and regionally significant infrastructure projects that President Obama will expedite to help modernize and expand five major ports in the United States. The Administration is committed to completing all federal reviews for the Port of Savannah by November of 2012.</span></span>


<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 10pt;"> **__and, The Permutation Isn’t a Clarification of What The Plan Means – Savannah Has Already Been Expedited Which Means It is Included in The Plan.__** </span>




**<span style="font-family: Helvetica;">and, this Would Make The Permutation Intrinsic Because They Would Have to Insert a Colon Between The Phrase “Expedited Port Dredging Initatives” and The Ports We Include Which Changes The Meaning of The Sentence – It Wouldn’t Be a Combination of Two Different Policies. The Fairest Interpretation for Evaluating Perms is That Do Both Just Means They Insert The Word “and” Between The Plan and Counterplan and Plan Text Because It Doesn’t Change The Meaning of Either.</span>**





The Word Expedite Has a Specific Meaning About The Review Process for Projects and Making It More Efficient – That is a Qualitative Chance, Not a Substantial Increase in Investment.
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-family: Arial;">Savannah Morning News 12 (“Obama: Fast Track Harbor Deepening,” July 19)</span></span>

<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span class="UnderlineBold">The planned Expansion of the Savannah Harbor got a major shot in the arm late Wednesday when the Obama Administration announced it would expedite the project</span><span style="color: #4e4e4e; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10.5pt;">, with all federal reviews completed and a Record of </span><span class="UnderlineBold">Decision coming no later than November.</span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="font-size: 10pt;">As part of his “We Can’t Wait” initiative, the president listed seven “nationally and regionally significant infrastructure projects” at five major ports, promising to put each on a fast track designed to save time and drive better outcomes for local communities.</span></span>
<span style="vertical-align: baseline;"><span style="color: #4e4e4e; font-family: Tahoma; font-size: 10.5pt;">The initiative is part of a Presidential Executive Order issued in March charging the Office of Management and Budget with overseeing a government-wide effort to make the permitting and review process for infrastructure projects more efficient and effective.</span></span>




<span style="font-family: Arial;"> **__and, this is Proven by The Fact That Expediting and Funding are Two Distinct Processes.__**</span>

**__<span style="font-family: Arial;">Miami Hearald 12</span>__** **__<span style="font-family: Arial;">(“White House Speeds up Permits, Offers No New Cash for Portmiami Dredge Project,” July 19, Http:</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial;">Www.Miamiherald.Com/2012/07/19/2902727/White-House-Speeds-up-Permits.Html)</span>

<span class="UnderlineBold">The White House on Thursday put PortMiami’s long-awaited dredging project on a list of fast-tracked, nationally significant seaport improvement projects, guaranteeing it an expedited permitting process.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Practically speaking, the designation means little, since the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers had already pushed the plan forward after it cleared all regulatory hurdles and survived a legal challenge from environmentalists.</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">The Army Corps is already expected to put the $180 million project up for bid in August.</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Still, in a joint statement, Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez and PortMiami Director Bill Johnson lauded the federal recognition, with Johnson saying “over the past several years the deep dredge has been a number one priority for PortMiami.”</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Thursday’s announcement by the White House does not mean money is likely to flow from the federal government any time soon. In March, pushing the much-needed dredging project along, Gov. Rick Scott visited the port and announced the state would advance the county more than $90 million.</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Scott’s hope was that the state would be reimbursed. Miami-Dade will cover the remainder of the $180 million cost to deepen the port from 42 to 50 feet, a move the county is undertaking to accommodate the mega-ships that will glide through the newer, deeper Panama Canal.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Because Congress has ordered the Army Corps not to begin any new projects indefinitely, Johnson said, the White House would need to propose funding for Miami-Dade, which then would send the money back to the state.</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">Asked Johnson: “I’ve got a big question mark: Where are the dollars? Is the president putting dollars for PortMiami into his budget next year?”</span>
<span style="color: #1a2732; font-family: Arial; font-size: 10.5pt;">That wasn’t clear Thursday, with one senior administration official saying only, “Today’s announcements focus just on expediting all remaining federal reviews.”</span>