[[toc]]
==**Burke**== 
**The 1AC’s enframing of strategic and technical reason reifies an ontology and epistemology of violence—their technological worldview reduces all beings to standing-reserve and guarantees extinction**
Burke 7—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
This essay develops a theory about the causes of war -- and thus …at limited cost and with limited impact -- it permeates being.

**The judge should take on the role of the intellectual – vote negative to exchange the ontology of being for one of becoming—this free relationship to technology entails a questioning that can break free from technological thought and re-imagine the world from outside the political space**
Burke 7—Associate Professor of Politics and International Relations in the University of New South Wales (Anthony, Theory & Event, Volume 10, Issue 2, 2007, “Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason,” Project MUSE)
I was motivated to begin the larger project from which this essay … Will our actions perpetuate or help to end the global rule of insecurity and violence? Will our thought?


==Schmitt== 
**The affirmative’s drive to master space is not merely an end in and of itself but rather a hegemonic denial of legitimacy to those who would dare challenge us—we become the sole source of normativity and those beyond our identity are nothing but sub-humans to be exterminated**
Zolo 2007 (Danilo, Professor of Philosophy and Sociology of Law at the University of Florence, “The re-emerging notion of Empire and the influence of Carl Schmitt’s thought” selection of “The International Political Thought of Carl Schmitt Terror, liberal war and the crisis of global order” pg. 160-162) 
First, today the United States’ power can be said ...Iraq’s former dictator, to death in November 2006.

**This makes war inevitable and infinite in both scope and duration—the alternative is to reaffirm the conceptual apparatus of a pan-region as the only way to move beyond the 1AC’s deployment of the universal and back to clear friend-enemy distinctions**
Teschke 2011 (Benno, Senior Lecturer of International Relations at the University of Sussex, “Decisions and Indecisions: Political and Intellectual Receptions of Carl Schmitt” New Left Review No. 67 Jan-Feb 2011 pg. 66-67)
Some followers of Schmitt detect...it requires a careful re-examination.