===1ac plan text=== 
====The United States federal government should substantially increase transportation infrastructure //__loans__// in the United States commensurate with incorporation of an independently governed National Infrastructure Bank into the Export-Import Bank of the United States.==== 


===1ac trade=== 
====Advantage One is //__Trade__//:==== 
====Recent reauthorization is //__insufficient__// to sustain Ex-Im – a //__substantial increase__// in //__loan authority__// is key==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">McDermott 12</span> (Hon. Jim McDermott, U.S. House of Representatives, “In Support of the Export-Import Bank,” Congressional Record Volume 158, Number 63, Extensions of Remarks, p.E713, 5-7-2012, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CREC-2012-05-07/html/CREC-2012-05-07-pt1-PgE713-3.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Mr. McDERMOTT. Mr. Speaker, we have spent months in this House watching the Republicans create an unstable business environment and hurt U.S. jobs while they delay the reauthorization of the Export- Import Bank. While the Export-Import Bank supports hundreds of thousands of American jobs every year at no cost and no risk to the taxpayer, the Republicans have been stuck between their radical tea- party ideology of pure free-markets on one side and the Republican Majority's relationship with Delta Airlines on the other. </span>We<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> now </span>have a compromise that does not extend the Bank for as long as it needs to be or for as much<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as it needs to be long-term. We also have a real lack of understanding in the Congress and in the Public of what this Ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port- </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Bank does</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Over 50 countries have ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">banks and all of the them are growing right now. While they are competing and running faster, the Republicans have us sitting on our hands and unilaterally disarming</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">I could fill this chamber with the bipartisan, non-partisan, expert studies telling us for decades that we here in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">don't do a good job promoting our exports</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. My constituents, the port in my district and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the huge number of </span> exporting businesses<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in my district </span>need //the same kind of support// from their government that<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> all of their Chinese, and Indian, and European </span> competitors are getting<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The current deal<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that's being worked on </span>only reauthorizes<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the Export-Import Bank </span>for a few years<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. My bill uses the same bipartisan framework that exists today and would authorize it for 10, through 2021. Building on this bipartisan framework, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">my bill would also truly expand the Ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bank's lending authorities, doubling it to $200 Billion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The Export-Import Bank makes money for the taxpayer, is virtually no risk, and </span>the lending authority should<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> be big enough so that it will </span>actually //keep up with// our exports <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">into the foreseeable future. </span>This higher authority<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, along with the longer extension, </span>will create<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>//stability//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">businesses and their workers need</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Finally, my bill asks the Government Accountability Office to study the Export-Import Bank and compare it to the Export-Import Banks its competing against in other countries around the world. How are we competing now that we have real stability and a cap that's responsible but doesn't constrain us? What can the ExIm Bank do better? This is the kind of forward analysis Congress needs to help our exporters. Mr. Speaker, it's long past time for us to get the lobbyists out of the way of all other American businesses so that we can create jobs here at home.</span>

====//__National coordination__// of //__transportation infrastructure investment__// is vital to support any export strategy==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lamb-Hale 10</span> (Nicole Y., Assistant Secretary for Manufacturing and Services International Trade Administration for the U.S. Department of Commerce , “Testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance, Subcommittee on International Trade, Customs, and Global Competitiveness for ‘Doubling U.S. Exports: Are U.S> Sea Ports Ready for the Challenge?’” U.S. Senate, April 29, 2010, http://www.finance.senate.gov/imo/media/doc/042910nltest.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Administration </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is deeply committed to expanding globally competitive manufacturing, exports, and job growth in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates as part of American economic recovery. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As part of this effort, the I</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nternational </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">T</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">rade </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">dministration </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is dedicated to enhancing the global competitiveness of U.S. industry, expanding its market access</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and increasing exports in order to promote economic recovery and job growth</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Through comprehensive industry analysis and outreach to industry, we evaluate the impacts of domestic and international economic and regulatory issues on U.S. businesses. We then work with the private sector and with our partner Departments to develop public policies that advance U.S. competitiveness at home and abroad. Today’s hearing could not be timelier, or more important. Earlier this month, President Obama signed a historic Executive Order creating the National Export Initiative – an ambitious agenda of trade advocacy and promotion efforts aimed at doubling U.S. exports in order to support two million American jobs over the next five years. The International Trade Administration will play a key role in the success of this competitiveness initiative. As we move forward with this effort, a crucial element of this discussion must be the state of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America’s supply chain infrastructure – its ports and the interconnected road, rail, and air connections that make our industrial, export and job growth possible and support our manufacturers both here and abroad</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Last May, Secretary Gary Locke said, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">To be competitive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in today’s global economy, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S. companies need to be able to move products</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and goods securely, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">quickly and efficiently within our borders and beyond</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. America cannot compete successfully in the 21 st Century with a 20 th Century infrastructure.” As a former Governor of Washington State, Secretary Locke knows the importance of a strong supply chain infrastructure. The exports and imports that flow through Washington’s supply chain support more than 10 percent of the state’s private sector jobs. According to a U.S. Department of Transportation study, the transportation related sector accounted for some13 million jobs in 2008, or nearly 10 percent of the U.S. workforce. A U.S. Chamber of Commerce study points out that some 99 million other U.S. jobs – manufacturing, retailing, services, and agriculture – are economically dependent on the transportation sector. America’s </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">manufacturing and services </span>//industries depend on our supply chain//  //infrastructure to be competitive//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> at home </span>//and//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> abroad. One </span>//cannot thrive without//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the other. This infrastructure includes </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ports and </span>//the interconnected roads, rail, and air//  //connections that make American exports and job growth possible//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">America’s inefficient, insufficient, and </span>//poorly-connected//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">freight i</span>nfrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> network isimpeding the smooth flow of our products </span>//from manufacturer to port to market//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The resulting delays and costs are resulting in missed export opportunities and domestic development – which in turn </span>//block our efforts//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to restore American jobs and competitiveness in the global economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As one senior transport executive recently told us, “Do our policy makers really think we can substantively expand our manufacturing base with our existing supply chain infrastructure?” For this reason, the Department of Commerce is working with America’s shippers and the Department of Transportation and other agencies to recognize the key importance of improving our supply chain and transport infrastructure from the complementary perspective of international competitiveness – and to ensure that this is our guiding principle as our transportation infrastructure policy is being developed. The Department of Commerce views supply chain infrastructure from a competitiveness perspective. Thus, we need to explore some key questions regarding U.S. supply chain infrastructure. • What enhancements to U.S. infrastructure could help manufacturers stay globally competitive? • What are we doing now to move freight, people, and ideas – as efficiently as possible? • What is our foreign competition doing by comparison? To address these questions, Commerce has already begun the important process of examining our policies and programs, and also of seeking industry input to ensure that our companies can compete at every step in the supply chain process. AMERICA’S FREIGHT INFRASTRUCTURE AND SUPPLY CHAIN COMPETITIVENESS As sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, firms are transforming the way they look at and manage supply chains. No longer are individual companies competing with each other, entire supply chains are. Effective supply chains and just-in-time delivery systems drive modern global business. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Supply chain infrastructure is the glue that binds successful trade routes. It affects the cost of every single product in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Inefficient connections and capacity limitations lead to delays that raise the price of a company’s product, and make it harder to compete globally. Supply chain infrastructure is an important factor in a company’s decision on where to invest, build, and employ people</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure determines the attractiveness of a particular location. As world commerce becomes more integrated, and as sourcing and product delivery operations span larger and longer distances, America’s firms and supply chains are being transformed. It has long been the case that it is no longer the individual companies that compete with each other. Rather, </span>//entire supply chains//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – fully integrated processes that connect </span>//manufacturer to transporter to distribution center to point of sale//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – are now the primary competitors in domestic and global commerce</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Efficiencies in supply chains lead to competitive advantages, and they make possible global sourcing, just in time delivery systems, and modern global business itself. The velocity and efficiency of each supply chain depends on the infrastructure through which these goods and products flow. The increasingly time-sensitive and integrated nature of modern supply chains make smooth, just-in-time goods movement a critical element in that supply chain’s ability to compete in the global economy. Industry today sees infrastructure as an interconnected network of physical transport facilities, combined with modern information technology systems. The efficiency of this infrastructure -- and the industries that depend on it—is affected by environmental and sustainability considerations, new financing options, education, and regulatory and trade security measures. This speaks to the growing sophistication and complexity of modern supply chains, and their critical reliance on the quality of America’s supply chain infrastructure to support modern, high-tech manufacturing. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Industry members have told us that supply chain infrastructure makes a difference because it affects the cost of every single product made or used in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates. </span>Missing connections and capacity limitations //between port and manufacturer//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> lead to delays that </span>raise the price of //every American export//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> product and make it harder tocompete with international producers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. To illustrate this point, a recent Wall Street Journal article reported that a key harbor grain terminal in the Port of Los Angeles lacks enough space to handle the volume of exports arriving from inland producers due to the limited rail service to that terminal. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Leading executives have also told us that a nation’s supply chain infrastructure also makes a difference </span>when deciding where their firms will invest<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, build facilities and employ people</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. These decisions require substantial lead times, and the quality of the infrastructure at the point of decision – </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the efficiency of the ports, </span>the level of //inter-modal//  //connections//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the quality of the </span>//IT systems, and more//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – </span>//determines//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in part </span>//the//  //attractiveness of a location//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The United States has long been accustomed to having a top-flight freight system. However, for many reasons – including our lack of a comprehensive, system-wide U.S. freight infrastructure development strategy, and our overly modal approach to planning and investment – we are not improving our freight infrastructure fast enough to keep pace with the needs of our 21 st Century supply chains, and with the development of integrated transportation systems in the nations that compete with us in the global marketplace. Our national supply chain infrastructure is a global competitiveness issue. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Studies have shown the impact of our inability to respond to this global challenge</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A recent World Bank LPI survey ranks the United States as only the world’s 15 th most competitive economy in logistics performance terms, behind such global national competitors as Germany, Singapore, Japan, the United Kingdom, Hong Kong, and Canada. The survey also found that the U.S. is only the world’s 7 th most efficient economy in terms of its infrastructure, again behind such leading competitors as Germany, Singapore, and Japan. Senior executives from industry tell Commerce repeatedly that </span>what is missing is a comprehensive and coordinated national policy approach<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to moving product in the United States. According to industry, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the basic </span>elements<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of a national policy approach </span>//must include//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: • </span>//Viewing the supply chain infrastructure as a whole//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, a system of interrelated parts </span>//emphasizing the interconnection points//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; • Emphasizing the needs of the system users, i.e., the manufacturers and shippers whose products flow through the system; • Ensuring that supply chain infrastructure enhances America’s economic competitiveness and export growth; • Acknowledging that security of this critical infrastructure system is vital and requires an interagency and public/private partnership approach; and • </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Recognizing that </span>//a competitive, modern supply chain infrastructure is// //indispensable to the sustained recovery//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of American manufacturing and exports</span> //and the success of our nation’s export strategy//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In other words, </span>//a port is only as competitive as the road, rail, and air networks to which it is connected//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====Only the plan has an //__immediate__// effect==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Schweitzer, et al 11</span> (Howard Schweitzer, former chief operating officer of the Treasury Department’s Troubled Assets Relief Program, former senior vice president and general counsel of the Export-Import Bank of the United States from 2005 to 2008, principal in Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies; Mark L. Alderman, member of the Obama-Biden presidential transition team, principal in Cozen O’Connor Public Strategies; Evan Bayh, former U.S. senator from Indiana, senior adviser to Apollo Global Management; “We already have the infrastructure bank we need,” Washington Post, 9-29-2011, http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/we-already-have-the-infrastructure-bank-we-need/2011/09/27/gIQA59TI8K_story.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the American Jobs Act, President Obama reiterated his call for a national infrastructure bank, building on bipartisan legislation introduced in March by Sens. John Kerry (D-Mass.), Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-Tex.) and Mark Warner (D-Va.). </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The media are awash with calls to pass legislation creating a government bank to support private-sector investment in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> projects that would revitalize our domestic </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which most experts agree is in disrepair. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">At the same time, Washington is desperately searching for tools to stimulate a struggling economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Yet even if the president’s proposal were enacted tomorrow, it would be years before such a new bank would be fully operational. While Congress and the administration debate the appropriate means of financing infrastructure, there is a way to begin financing projects and creating jobs today</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The Ex<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">port-</span>Im<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">port Bank of the United States, a self-funded government corporation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that carries the full faith and credit of the United States, </span>has been financing multibillion-dollar infrastructure projects<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and creating American jobs for more than 75 years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Why haven’t you heard of the bank? Because it finances these projects in Jakarta, Santo Domingo and Sofia, instead of in Chicago, Dallas and Boston. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bank</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — known to many in Washington as the Ex-Im Bank — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">creates American jobs </span>by financing U.S. exports when commercial financing is not available <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or when its support is necessary to level the playing field with foreign subsidized exports</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The bank has underwritten and financed large projects involving the export of American products for projects such as the development of a toll road in Romania, an airport in Ecuador and a pipeline in Peru, to name just a few. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Its loan-loss history over 75 years hovers at less than 2 percent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. After years of watching the bank turn a profit for taxpayers, Congress passed legislation in 2007 that enabled the bank to fund its own loan-loss reserve and operations through the fees it charges borrowers, rather than through an annual congressional appropriation. Effectively, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">its operations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> since then </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have cost taxpayers nothing, with its earnings going to the U.S. Treasury’s general account</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Despite its name, as a matter of policy the Export-Import Bank finances only U.S. exports. The singularity of that mission and </span>the bank’s //apolitical approach//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> have </span>helped it build a //bipartisan base of support//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in Congress. Yet the bank could do much more — and </span>//has the legal authority//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to do so</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bank’s congressional mandate gives it broad authority to operate “a general banking business,” meaning the institution can develop innovative financing solutions that combine public and private capital</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> while protecting the taxpayer. </span>A<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> newly </span>expanded Ex<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">port-</span>Im<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">port Bank </span>could facilitate private-sector investment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in projects such as repairing roads and bridges</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, modernizing the energy grid, </span>and<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> maintaining our dams and levees — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">creating jobs while rebuilding the country</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Many of those pushing for </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">an infrastructure bank</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> say that public-private partnerships are part of the solution. This basic concept </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">combines private capital with some form of public support to finance large projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">That is the Export-Import Bank’s bread and butter. Put another way, the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">already has a bank that knows how to balance investor return with lender</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (i.e., taxpayer) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">protection — often a major stumbling block to public-private deals</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Export-Import Bank also </span>has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in place the </span>//internal decision-making//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, credit and operational functions </span>to execute a //new, non-political mandate regarding domestic infrastructure finance//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The bank is governed by a bipartisan board of directors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, all presidential appointees confirmed by the Senate. It is overseen by a presidentially appointed inspector general and by the Senate Banking Committee, the House Financial Services Committee and appropriators in both houses of Congress. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Not only would </span>adding domestic infrastructure <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">projects to the bank’s mandate </span>//avoid the inevitable delay//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that would occur should Congress pass legislation creating a national infrastructure bank, but the federal government’s most recent attempt to create a government lender to finance large projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> — the Energy Department loan guarantee program — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has fallen far below expectations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the federal government</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is to play a role in addressing the country’s serious infrastructure needs, policymakers should decide whether they want to make a difference now. They </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">can </span>//broaden the////Ex//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span>//Im//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span>//Bank mission//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and put the bank </span>//to//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> work in prudently but </span>//aggressively financing domestic infrastructure//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> projects while Congress and the administration consider whether to create a new federal agency, or they can allow our infrastructure to further deteriorate while that debate takes place</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The president should ask Congress simply to resolve to encourage Ex-Im to act now. </span>//This green light is all that’s needed//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to begin rebuilding America and creating jobs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Effectiveness is key to sustain //__political support__// for free trade and prevent //__domestic__// //__protectionism__//==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Richardson 1</span> (J. David Richardson, visiting fellow at the Institute for International Economics, professor of economics and international relations at Syracuse University, “Exports Matter...And So Does Trade Finance,” Chapter 5, //The Ex-Im Bank in the 21st Century: A New Approach?//, eds. Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Rita M. Rodriguez, January 2001, http://www.piie.com/publications/chapters_preview/323/5iie3004.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This chapter argues that </span>**__deep US export dependence is a good thing— as is the inevitable, corresponding import dependence__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It argues further that the quantitative rewards from deep export and import dependence are much larger, and much more widely dispersed across US society, than previously thought. It explains that because most US trade is in inputs, not final consumer goods,5 trade dependence contributes to pro- ductivity, not to mere greed. It documents that the types of goods that we export and import—and not just the amounts—contribute to the large rewards that arise from trade dependence. It describes the underappreci ated sources of these rewards, drawing on new research at the firm and worker levels. This new research is similar to research on identical twins. It compares the performance of firms and workers that are in most ways identical, except for their “global engagement.”9 But US policy posture, although positive, is cautious. Exports are hardly sacred. Sweeping export promotion schemes often degenerate into cor ruption and mindless mercantilism. Exports (and imports) should not be treated as lightly as they have been in recent generations, and they de serve promoting. But the government’s role in this promotion is more limited than it may appear. it boils down to doing no harm and being wise as a serpent. </span>**__The US Export-Import Bank has an important part to play in helping to__** //deepen US trade dependence//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and in maintaining the favorable pattern of US comparative advantage. Ultimately, the nation’s standard of living matters more than exports. Although exports and imports contribute to the US living standard in important ways, the fundamental determinants of this standard are tech nology, resources, incentives, and the institutions that regulate and allow markets to function. </span>**__Export nonchalance is costly not just if it deters exports, but also if it inhibits technology, diverts resources, and blunts incentives__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Certain of the new reasons why exports are important sug gest that </span>**__exactly such slippage, diversion, and stagnation could happen without__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> greater public appreciation of why exports matter and without </span>**__greater public support for US export__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and import) </span>**__engagement__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Public education may he the first and greatest concern of wise export promotion. The chapter reviews the old and new evidence for why exports matter to the US economy. Then it clarifies how the large gains from deep export dependence are really just the other face of the large gains from deep import dependence (in spite of net gains, deepening trade dependence also always involves costs). The discussion is refined further, showing that the “quality” (sectoral pattern) and “quantity” (the depth to which the United States embraces trade dependence) of US comparative advantage also matter. The chapter concludes with a brief statement of policy implications for US export promotion policy and the US Export-Import Bank. Why Are Exports Important? A Dozen Answers Some answers to the above question are obvious and familiar, and are treated very briefly. Others are subtle and surprising, springing from recent changes in the global trading environment and the means for ana lyzing it. All 12 answers increase the “stakes” in exporting—and the stakes in avoiding export nonchalance, in refraining from export disincentives, in providing wisely targeted policy support to exports, and in maintain ing market-opening momentum in trade negotiations. The first two benefits of exports are familiar from discussions of macro economics. Two others are familiar from microeconomics. But eight others from microeconomics are less familiar, and increasingly relevant to the modern US economy. All 10 microeconomic benefits explain why, apart from considerations of employment and trade balance, a country might benefit from more export dependence—and more import dependence; hence, more outward orientation in general. They explain why having larger export and import shares in overall economic activity is beneficial, even to the United States. They also explain why some sectors’ exports may be “better” than others, and why export-related jobs and exportengaged firms in export-oriented communities may be “better” than others. Few of these benefits are well understood by the broad public. It is important to emphasize and reemphasize one overwhelming source of misunderstanding and controversy: </span>**__Having larger export shares with constant employment and trade balance necessarily also implies having larger import shares__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’-1 </span>**__Imports are “good” for essentially the same reasons as exports. A commitment to stronger export engagement is a commitment to deeper import penetration. Export promotion and export finance support usually encourage imports as much as they encourage exports. Openness is openness. It is not mercantilism__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The section alter this one explains the new benefits from more out ward orientation in an evenhanded way—in terms of both more exports md more imports. But it is easier to explain the high stakes in the new benefits if one starts from the perspective of exporting sectors and firms and their workers alone. That is the purpose of this section?3 Two Familiar Macroeconomic Answers 1. Jobs. Exports are important when they provide jobs for otherwise un employed workers and resources. However, this benefit is not unique to exports. Any extra spending, say consumption or investment, can reem ploy the unemployed. Exports are also important if the jobs they provide are especially attractive relative to other jobs. This in fact tends to be true, and is discussed below. Exports do not really create jobs; they create “better” jobs. It is the quality of jobs, not the quantity. that matters. 2. Trade balance. Apart from employment, </span>**__exports may be important when the trade balance is important__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span>**__if the US government is concerned about reducing or financing trade deficits__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—say </span>//to avoid the buildup of protectionist political pressure//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">—</span>**__then “greater exports” have considerable appeal over other broad alternatives (e.g., import compression, sales of US-owned foreign or domestic assets, or increased US indebtedness to foreigners__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">).15 Two Familiar Microeconomic Answers 3. Gains from trade. Exports are important when they are the necessary means to obtain unique or uniquely desirable imports. Exports are the quid pro quo for imports in the classic account of gains from interna tional trade. They are the cream of the nation’s competitiveness exchanged for the cream of overseas competitiveness. They are what our workers and resources produce best, traded for what others produce best. With out exports and imports, each nation is left producing more milk and less cream. However, even this benefit is not unique to exports. Improved technology is another way of turning milk into cream. 4. Political economy and commercial diplomacy. </span>**__Exports are important for both__** //political and diplomatic// **__reasons. Export interests are often effective__** //counterweights to insular special interests//**__, and thus are helpful in supporting open-trade policies__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, as documented by Destler and Odell (1987).16 Export interests serve informally as “commercial diplomats,” communica tors of US marker, cultural, and political information to foreign interests.17 </span>

====This also //__deters__// __//foreign//__ protectionism and //__guarantees__// //__commitment__// to trade – resolves any alternate causes==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Summers 1</span> (Lawrence H. Summers, 71st Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, “Continuing the Fight against International Trade Finance Subsidies,” Chapter 20, The Ex-Im Bank in the 21st Century: A New Approach?, eds. Gary Clyde Hufbauer and Rita M. Rodriguez, January 2001, http://www.piie.com/publications/chapters_preview/323/5iie3004.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the 65 years since the creation of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the US </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port Bank, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">theworld has come to a much greater recognition of the crucial role thattrade can play in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> promoting prosperity—and by promoting prosperity, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">promoting global peace</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the words of Cordell I—lull: “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When goods donot cross borders, armies do</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Promoting trade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and commercial exchange between nations </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is Ex-ImBank’s mission</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and it is a mission that has served the United States extraordinarily well these past 65 years. </span>In a more integrated world, therewill continue to be a case for national institutions that support<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the financing of </span>exports<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example. where national and international capi tal markets are imperfect or underinformed, governments can write in surance that the markets will not. This has always been a crucial part of Ex-Im’s work and one that the United States will continue to support. This chapter focuses on another, increasingly crucial aspect of Ex-Ims work: what might be termed its role in US national economic defense. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Just as the real virtue of a strong military is that can it prevent wars, thevirtue of </span>maintaining a strong and credible Ex-Im Bank<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is that it </span>can<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">help to </span>//deter abusive subsidies by other countries//-—and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to </span>//reduce the////chance that the U//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>//will need to resort to//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> costly </span>//subsidies//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The chapter has three parts: First, what the United States has already achieved in scaling back un fair international export subsidies; Second, the next frontier in the battle to deter costly international subsidy competition; and Third, the broader issues that the United States must confront with respect to the global adoption of more socially responsible, sustainable trading practices. </span>//Preventing a Race to the Bottom in////Export Subsidies//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">: The Record to Date The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Arrangement was created just 22 years ago, it has had enormous• -and underappreciated. -success In preventing much counterproductive, ex - pensive subsidy competition in International trade. What Is more, these benefits have been achieved not through a legally binding treaty between governments but through a gentleman’s agreement: By reducing export subsidies, the Arrangement has successfully con fronted a particularly insidious form of trade protectionism and saved US taxpayers billions of dollars. The annual budget savings for the United States alone are probably more than $500 million. By emphasizing transparent competition, the Arrangement has helped to promote a level playing field for global trade and a stronger. inure efficient global economy. By ensuring the best use of official export finance, the Arrangement has helped to improve the effectiveness of development policy. The OECD Arrangement Is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">part of a broader US effort to promotefree and fair trade </span>by reducing export subsidies in the international arena<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. must notably through the United States’s work on the General Agree ment on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and with Its successor, the World Trade Organization (WTO). in fact, the United States has used the Ar rangemne.it to fill gaps in the WTO subsidy rules and help strengthen the broader system. WTO rules rightly permit the use of development assistance to help promote economic development in poorer countries. But when aid is designed mure for the benefit of domestic exporters than the countries for which the assistance Is supposedly intended, the resulting distortions under mine the very basis of fair and open trade, and corrode the ideals upon which official development assistance Is based.</span>

====Otherwise, escalating trade disputes will overwhelm existing settlement mechanisms – results in an uncontrollable wave of global protectionism==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Xie 10-12</span> (Andy Xie, “The End of the WTO's Golden Era,” Caixin Online, 10-11-2012, http://english.caixin.com/2012-10-11/100445876_all.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Globalization has been on a rapid pace for two decades. Trade has been rising roughly twice as fast as global GDP in the past two decades. The World Trade Organization's rule-based system, though with many flaws, has played a critical role. The total number of anti-dumping cases peaked in 2001 at 372 and was as low as 155 last year. However, the trend for China isn't as favorable. It suffered 49 anti-dumping cases, about the same as the ten-year average. Considering that China's exports have been rising twice as fast as the global trade, the stable number of anti-dumping cases should be considered a good outcome. The WTO system has been beneficial to China's trade development. Some </span>recent incidents suggest<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> more </span>bumps<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ahead </span>in globalization<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The Obama administration has brought </span>a complaint to the WTO against <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">China subsidizing the auto and auto parts industries</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It recently ordered a Sany affiliate to divest its investment in a U.S. wind power project. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Both the E</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">uropean </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nion </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are considering sanctions against </span>China's solar power<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> equipment </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">exports</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A U.S. House committee just said Huawei and ZTE pose security threats and, hence, could be barred from exporting to the United States. These incidences could be viewed as part of election politics. Things may go back to normal after the U.S. presidential election next month. I suspect otherwise. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Weak economic growth may play a bigger role than election politics in increasing trade barriers. Unless the global economy returns to a high growth rate soon, </span>//protectionism may escalate sufficiently to permanently cap economic growth//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//creating a vicious cycle of rising protectionism and weak//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> economic </span>//growth//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Return of Protectionism </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Globalization has been on the rise for two decades. Almost every country believed that rising trade would increase prosperity. Prosperity did occur. When the going was good, no one questioned faith in free trade</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Economic theory justifies free trade. When trade occurs between two persons, they must be better off. Otherwise, the two sides wouldn't agree. Extending the theory to two countries requires a twist to the theory, especially when the trade is due to outsourcing or replacing of existing economic activities. Obviously, the workers that lose to outsourcing are worse off. But the country as a whole should gain more if workers can find other jobs at similar pay. Unfortunately, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">when trade is large relative to GDP and growing fast, the theory doesn't hold. Displaced workers may take huge pay cuts to find jobs. The reduction in labor income could be bigger than the gain in business profit</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even when gain in business profit exceeds loss in labor income</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, redistribution is very difficult. In the United States few politicians dare to talk about raising taxes. In France, there is a scare over rich people's mass exodus in response to the government's 75 percent tax rate on income above 1 million euros. London seems cutting taxes to attract business headquarters from Switzerland. Most highly paid financial professionals that serve China live in Hong Kong. In a globalized world, it is difficult to tax capital or mobile professionals. They happen to gain most from globalization. Hence, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">redistribution to spread the upside from globalization is difficult to accomplish</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Even though globalization generated lots of losers in the past two decades, it has prospered because bubbles covered up the downside</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In the United States, Wall Street created financial instruments to allow average people to extract cash out of inflating property value. In Europe, the financial bubble allowed southern European governments to borrow at a low interest rate for distribution to their people. The bubble income boosted their economic activities and created employment for the people displaced by globalization. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">High unemployment rates have followed the bursting of the financial bubbles in the West. It is really a delayed manifestation of the downside of globalization. This is one reason that unemployment rates will stay high. The bubble jobs won't return. It is a long slog to create so many jobs through normal economic activity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>When economic hardship is visible and long lasting, the attitude towards globalization <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or trade is bound to </span>change<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. What's happening in the U.S. presidential election could </span>//just be the beginning//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>//More may follow//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> afterwards. </span>//Any trade that disrupts a local economy is likely to be stopped//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. It would be extremely difficult for any country to gain market share in the future. Stagnation as the Norm </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The global economy is fairly close to recession and may remain so for years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates' </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">GDP growth rate is stuck around 2 percent, which will barely create enough jobs for labor growth and can't whittle down the existing pool of unemployed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Europe is in recession and may remain so for the foreseeable future. Japan is probably in recession too, as it has been for the past two decades and probably will be for the next two decades. Emerging economies have cooled off</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from the bubble-inflated growth rate of 2010-11 and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">are probably growing at 3 to 4 percent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This picture of developed economies at close to zero growth and emerging economies at 3 to 4 percent may stay with us for years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. By past standards, this is close to recession. Economics believes in the self-healing power of a market economy. When a disruption like bubble-bursting occurs, the price mechanism will reallocate economic resources to reach a new equilibrium that fully utilizes all resources including labor. Hence, the unemployment rate should decline on its own over time. When a high unemployment rate persists, economists tend to blame institutional factors like high unemployment benefits that discourage employment. This is not the whole picture I see </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">two factors that could prolong the employment crisis in the West. First, global competition may result in an equilibrium wage not sufficient to meet necessities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The cost of living varies widely around the world because big expenditure items, e.g. housing, education and health care, are locally determined. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">When one's wage is globally determined, but expenditure isn't, the former could be below the later</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. If a country wants to solve its employment problem, it must lower the cost of living. This is what Germany has done well. German wages are frighteningly low, especially for youth. They accept such low paying jobs because they don't suffer with student loans, high rents or health insurance premiums. But it is difficult to reform health care, education or housing. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is why the unemployment crisis will last for a long time</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Second, information technology will continue to displace white-collar workers in developed economies, adding to the labor market disruption from globalization and financial crises</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Technology is a good thing in the long run. It makes people more productive overall. But when it replaces people who have invested in their skills for decades, the disruption can't be easily smoothed through redistribution. Most middle-class jobs in developed economies are in information processing. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">IT development is advancing so rapidly that most such jobs could become redundant in the foreseeable future</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. From paralegals and executive assistants, to market information gatherers, IT can do better than people. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This disruption to the labor market may take a generation or longer to absorb</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The current economic crisis requires difficult structural reforms – not just time – to resolve</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The ongoing technology revolution disrupts the labor market on a massive scale. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These two factors are likely to trap the global economy in a slow growth or recessionary state for years to come</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. End of the Golden Era </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While the WTO system provides a platform for globalization, multinational companies have led it. Their pursuit of profit maximization has caused trade to grow twice as fast as GDP</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is why they are in good shape despite multiple global crises. And they continue to report record profits in a global recession. Multinational companies are the big beneficiaries of globalization. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Their </span>political influence in the West is the key to the success of the WTO system<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The global financial crisis of 2008 soon became a global economic crisis and has become a political crisis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Redistribution through tax has become a focal point in recent elections in the West. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">But businesses resist rising taxes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. They can redistribute profits around the world to low tax havens like Switzerland or Singapore. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Their resistance is bound to have political repercussions</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. When the pie is growing, tax dodging is viewed as being clever. When most people are suffering, such activities will be viewed very negatively. While politics is slow relative to business, it eventually catches up. This is why multinational companies may lose influence in their original home countries. For example, the EU is bound to coordinate tax rates for the foreseeable future. If Britain doesn't like it, it will have to leave the EU. The rules for profit calculation are likely to be tightened up to stop tax haven shopping. </span>The difficulties in resolving the inequities from globalization<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> through increasing taxes </span>will eventually shift politics to focus on trade directly<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. The rules for governing </span>multinational activities will become more complicated<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in future. The barriers against outsourcing will multiply. Import duties may rise. Selective use of anti-dumping cases will be used more frequently to protect existing industries.The golden era of the WTO system is coming to an end. Indeed, </span>//trade disputes could multiply sufficiently to overwhelm the WTO system//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Economists tend to blame the trade protection policies of the Western economies for causing or worsening depressions. The reality is probably more complicated. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The labor market has limited capacity to cope with globalization. The </span>//political backlash against globalization is inevitable//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> when the later moves too fast</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Trade has grown twice as fast as GDP in the past two decades. This relationship is unlikely to continue. The best scenario is for the two to grow at the same pace. The global economy will probably be stuck around 2 to 2.5 percent. So would trade.</span>

====Global protectionism makes all scenarios for transnational threats and nuclear conflict more likely==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Panzner 9</span> (Michael Panzner, Prof. at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase, Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse, 2009, p. 136-138)
**__Continuing calls for curbs on the flow of finance and trade will inspire the U__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>**__and other nations to spew forth protectionist legislation__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> like the notorious Smoot-Hawley bill. Introduced at the start of the Great Depression, it triggered a series of tit-for-tat economic responses, which many commentators believe helped turn a serious economic downturn into a prolonged and devastating global disaster. But if history is any guide, those lessons will have been long forgotten during the next collapse. Eventually, </span>**__fed by a mood of desperation and growing public anger, restrictions on trade, finance, investment, and immigration will almost certainly intensify__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Authorities and ordinary citizens will likely scrutinize the cross-border movement of Americans and outsiders alike, and lawmakers may even call for a general crackdown on nonessential travel. Meanwhile, many nations will make transporting or sending funds to other countries exceedingly difficult. </span>**__As desperate officials try to limit the fallout from decades of ill-conceived, corrupt, and reckless policies, they will introduce controls on foreign exchange__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Foreign individuals and companies seeking to acquire certain American infrastructure assets, or trying to buy property and other assets on the cheap thanks to a rapidly depreciating dollar, will be stymied by limits on investment by noncitizens. </span>**__Those efforts will cause spasms to ripple across economies and markets, disrupting global payment, settlement, and clearing mechanisms. All of this will, of course, continue to undermine business confidence and consumer spending__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a world of lockouts and lockdowns, any link that transmits systemic financial pressures across markets through arbitrage or portfolio-based risk management, or that allows diseases to be easily spread from one country to the next by tourists and wildlife, or that otherwise facilitates unwelcome exchanges of any kind will be viewed with suspicion and dealt with accordingly. </span>**__The rise in isolationism and protectionism will bring about ever more heated arguments and dangerous confrontations over shared sources of oil, gas, and other key commodities as well as factors of production that must, out of necessity, be acquired from less-than-friendly nations. Whether involving raw materials used in strategic industries or basic necessities such as food, water, and energy, efforts to secure adequate supplies will take increasing precedence in a world where demand seems constantly out of kilter with supply. Disputes over the misuse, overuse, and pollution of the environment and natural resources will become more commonplace. Around the world, such tensions will give rise to full-scale military encounters, often with minimal provocation__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__In some instances, economic conditions will serve as a convenient pretext for conflicts that stem from cultural and religious differences__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Alternatively, nations may look to divert attention away from domestic problems by channeling frustration and populist sentiment toward other countries and cultures. </span>**__Enabled by cheap technology and the waning threat of American retribution, terrorist groups will likely boost the frequency and scale of their horrifying attacks, bringing the threat of random violence to a whole new level__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>**__Turbulent conditions will encourage aggressive saber rattling and interdictions by rogue nations running amok. Age-old clashes will also take on a new, more heated sense of urgency. China will likely assume an increasingly belligerent posture toward Taiwan, while Iran may embark on overt colonization of its neighbors in the Mideast. Israel, for its part, may look to draw a dwindling list of allies from around the world into a growing number of conflicts__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Some observers, like John Mearsheimer, a political scientist at the University of Chicago, have even speculated that an “intense confrontation” between the United States and China is “inevitable” at some point. </span>**__More than a few disputes will turn out to be almost wholly ideological. Growing cultural and religious differences will be transformed from wars of words to battles soaked in blood. Long-simmering resentments could also degenerate quickly, spurring the basest of human instincts and triggering genocidal acts. Terrorists employing biological or nuclear weapons will vie with conventional forces using jets, cruise missiles, and bunker-busting bombs to cause widespread destruction. Many will interpret stepped-up conflicts between Muslims and Western societies as the beginnings of a new world war__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

====And, our impacts are reverse causal and empirically validated – maintaining a commitment to free trade is key to all forms of peace-building – we control the proximate cause of conflict==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 11</span> (Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Our more globalized world has also yielded a "peace dividend." It may not be obvious</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> when our daily news cycles are dominated by horrific images from the Gaza Strip, Afghanistan and Libya, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but </span>our more globalized world has<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> somehow </span>become<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a </span>more peaceful<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> world. </span>The number of <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">civil and international </span>wars has dropped<span style="font-size: 8pt;">sharply in the past 15 years, along with battle deaths. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The reasons behind the retreat of war are complex, but again the spread of trade and globalization have played a key role</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Trade has been seen as a friend of peace for centuries. In the 19th century, British statesman Richard Cobden pursued free trade as a way not only to bring more affordable bread to English workers but also to promote peace with Britain's neighbors. He negotiated the Cobden- Chevalier free trade agreement with France in 1860 that helped to cement an enduring alliance between two countries that had been bitter enemies for centuries. In the 20th century, President Franklin Roosevelt's secretary of state, Cordell Hull, championed lower trade barriers as a way to promote peaceful commerce and reduce international tensions. Hull had witnessed first-hand the economic nationalism and retribution after World War I. Hull believed that "unhampered trade dovetail[s] with peace; high tariffs, trade barriers and unfair economic competition, with war."ix Hull was awarded the 1945 Nobel Prize for Peace, in part because of his work to promote global trade. Free trade and globalization have promoted peace in three main ways. First, </span>trade and globalization have reinforced the trend towards democracy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and democracies tend not to pick fights with each other. A second and even more potent way that trade has promoted peace is </span>by raising the cost of war. As national economies become more intertwined<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, those </span>nations have more to lose<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> should war break out. War in a globalized world</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">means</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the loss of human lives and tax dollars, but also </span>ruptured trade<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and investment </span>ties<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that </span>impose lasting damage on the economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Trade and economic integration has helped to keep the peace in Europe for more than 60 years. More recently, deepening economicties between Mainland China and Taiwan are drawing those two governments closer together and helping to keep the peace. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Leaders on both sides of the Taiwan Straight seem to understand that reckless nationalism would jeopardize the dramatic economic progress that region has enjoyed.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A third reason why </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">free </span>trade<span style="font-size: 8pt;">promotes peace is because it </span>has reduced the spoils of war<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Trade allows nations to acquire wealth through production and exchange rather than conquest of territory and resources</span>. As economies develop, wealth is increasingly <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">measured in terms of intellectual property</span>,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> financial assets, and human capital</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Such </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">assets</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can</span>not <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">be </span>easily seized by armies<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In contrast, hard assets such as minerals and farmland are becoming relatively less important in high-tech, service economies. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If people need resources</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> outside their national borders, say oil or timber or farm products, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">they can acquire them peacefully by freely trading what they can produce </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">best at home</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">The world today is harvesting the peaceful fruit of expanding trade. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The first half of the 20th century was marred by two devastating wars among the great powers of Europe.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In the ashes of World War II, the United States helped found the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1947, the precursor to the WTO that helped to spur trade between the United States and its major trading partners. As a condition to Marshall Plan aid, the U.S. government also insisted that the continental European powers, France, Germany, and Italy, eliminate trade barriers between themselves in what was to become the European Common Market. One purpose of the common market was to spur economic development, of course, but just as importantly, it was meant to tie the Europeans together economically. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">With six decades of hindsight, the plan must be considered a spectacular success. The notion of another major war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between France, Germany and other Western European powers </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">is unimaginable. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Compared to past eras, </span>our time is one of relative world peace<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. According to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, the number of armed conflicts around the world has dropped sharply in the past two decades.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Virtually all the conflicts today are civil and guerrilla wars. The spectacle of two governments sending armies off to fight in the battlefield has become rare. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the decade from 1998 through 2007, </span>only three actual wars were fought between states<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Eritrea- Ethiopia in 1998-2000, India-Pakistan in 1998-2003, and the United States- Iraq in 2003.x From 2004 through 2007, no two nations were at war with one another. Civil wars have ended or at least ebbed in Aceh (in Indonesia), Angola, Burundi, Congo, Liberia, Nepal, Timor-Leste and Sierra Leone.xi Coming to the same conclusion is the Human Security Centre at the University of British Colombia in Canada. In a 2005 report, it documented </span>a sharp decline in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the number of armed conflicts, </span>genocides<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and refugee numbers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the past 20 years. </span>The average number of deaths per conflict has fallen<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from 38,000 in 1950 to 600 in 2002. Most armed conflicts in the world now take place in Sub-Saharan Africa, and the only form of political violence that has worsened in recent years is international terrorism/" Many causes lie behind the good news—the end of the Cold War, the spread of democracy, and peacekeeping efforts by the major powers among them—but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">expanding trade and globalization appear to be playing a major role in promoting world peace</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In a chapter in the 2005 Economic Freedom of the World Report, Dr. Erik </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Gartzke</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of Columbia University </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">compared the propensity of countries to engage in wars to their level of economic freedom. </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">He came to the conclusion that </span>economic freedom,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> including the freedom to trade, </span>significantly decreases the probability that a country will experience a military dispute with another country<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span>Through econometric analysis, <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">he found</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that, "</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Making economies freer translates into making countries more peaceful.</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At the extremes</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>the least free states are <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">about 14 times as </span>conflict prone <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as the most free."</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">xiiiA 2006 study for the Institute for the Study of Labor in Bonn, Germany, found the same pacific effect of trade and globalization. Authors Solomon Polachek and Carlos Seiglie found that "trading nations cooperate more and fight less."xiv In fact, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a doubling of trade reduces the probability that a country will be involved in a conflict by </span>20 percent<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>Trade was the most important channel for peace<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, they found, but investment flows also had a positive effect. A democratic form of government also proved to be a force for peace, but primarily because democracies trade more.5" All this helps explain why the world's </span>two most conflict-prone regions<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—</span>the Arab Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—</span>are also the world's two least<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> globally and </span>economically integrated regions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Terrorism does not spring from poverty but from ideological fervor and political and economic frustration. If we want to blunt the appeal of radical ideology to the next generation of Muslim children coming of age, we can help create more economic opportunity in those societies by encouraging more trade and investment ties with the West. The U.S. initiative to enact free trade agreements with certain Muslim countries, such as Morocco, Jordan, Bahrain and Oman, represent small steps in the right direction. An even more effective policy would be to unilaterally open Western markets to products made and grown in Muslim countries. A young man or woman with a real job at an export-oriented factory making overcoats in Jordan or shorts in Egypt is less vulnerable to the appeal of an Al-Qaida recruiter. Of course, free trade and globalization do not guarantee peace or inoculation against terrorism, anymore than they guarantee democracy and civil liberty. Hot- blooded nationalism and ideological fervor can overwhelm cold economic calculations. Any relationship involving human beings will be messy and non¬linear. There will always be exceptions and outliers in such complex relationships involving economies and governments. But </span>deeper trade and investment ties among nations have made it more likely that democracy and civil liberties will take root, and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.


===1ac diplomacy=== 

====Advantage Two is //__Commercial Diplomacy__//:==== 
====Misaligned strategic interests make //__collapse__// of //__US-Turkey relations__// inevitable absent //__stronger__// //__commercial__// //__ties__//==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Weitz 12-12</span> (Dr. Richard Weitz, Senior Fellow and Director of the Center for Political-Military Analysis at Hudson Institute, non-resident Senior Fellow at the Center for a New American Security, formerly worked for the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Defense Science Board, DFI International, Inc., Center for Strategic Studies, Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, and the U.S. Department of Defense, Ph.D. Political Science, Phi Beta Kappa, Harvard University, M.Phil. Politics, Oxford University, M.Sc. International Relations, the London School of Economics, B.A. Government, Harvard College, “The New United States – Turkey Partnership: A View From Washington,” Rethink Institute, Rethink Paper 07, December 2012, http://www.rethinkinstitute.org/files/The%20New%20US%20-%20Turkey%20Partnership.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Pitfalls Ahead</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Despite recent gains, the Turkish-U.S. relationship is still prone for problems</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Syrian regime is not without means to retaliate for whatever measures Turkey and the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">adopt in support of Assad’s opponents</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In partnership with Iran, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Syrian government could resume</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> its pre-1998 tactics of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">providing extensive support for the PKK</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Kurdistan Workers Party. Already there are suspicions that the recent upsurge in PKK attacks against Turkish targets is a Syrian-Iranian warning to moderate Ankara’s pressure on Assad. Even excluding the PKK factor, a Turkish decision to take up arms on behalf of Assad’s opponents risks labeling Turkey as a regional champion of Sunni Arabs rather than a supporter of democratic change and popular sovereignty. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And </span>Turkish feelings of betrayal<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> toward the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>could return <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if Turkey does not receive adequate tangible support from Washington in a shooting war with Assad</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">There will be a massive turnover in key U.S. government policy makers despite the reelection of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Barack </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as U.S. president in November 2012. The </span>close ties<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Turkish Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoglu </span>may not persist with Clinton’s departure<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Regional explosions that could lead to abrupt </span>bilateral disputes include another Armenia-Azerbaijan or Russia-Georgia<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>war<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey would find it difficult to manage an Israeli-U.S. attack on Iran, while Washington would react negatively to another Turkey-Israeli clash</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Turkey’s already strained relations with Israel will limit support for the AKP government in the U.S. Congress and public. </span>Turkey’s growing ties with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the established governments of </span>the Caucasus and Central Asia could lead to future<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Turkish-U.S. </span>differences if<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the U.S. combat </span>withdrawal from Afghanistan leaves behind a chaotic<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Afghanistan </span>and insecure regional environment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Turkish leaders have sought to mediate the nuclear dispute between Tehran and the West. In 2010, they worked with Brazil to achieve a confidence-building exchange of enriched uranium between the parties. After the West rejected that proposal, Turkey adopted a lower profile on this issue. But </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the recent </span>intensification of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Western </span>sanctions to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> encompass </span>Iran’s energy exports has galvanized Turkey<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>heavily dependent on Iranian natural gas, into action<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Turkey has renewed its diplomatic efforts and, while declining to again offer its own substantive solutions, once again offered to host talks on its territory. Furthermore, the AKP has at times deviated from Washington’s preferred policy regarding Iran. In the absence of convincing evidence to the contrary, Turkish officials had reservations about imposing economic and other sanctions against Iran by the UN Security Council or by individual countries, which severely hurts Iran’s neighbors and key economic partners, including Turkey. </span>They want<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to prevent other countries, such as Israel, from employing</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—or threatening to employ—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">force against Iran to attack its nuclear facilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkish officials argue that the best way to prevent Iran from seeking nuclear weapons is to address the underlying sources of insecurity</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that might induce Tehran to seek them. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Rather than rely on threats and sanctions, they urge the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates and its allies </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to offer Iran </span>security pledges<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in return for </span>reciprocal Iranian guarantees that Tehran will not use its nuclear activities for military purposes<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. </span>These Turkish-U.S. differences<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, currently overshadowed by Turkish-Iranian divergences over Iraq and especially Syria, </span>could become more serious <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in the future</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey might also change its benign nuclear weapons policies in coming years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Most obviously, unambiguous evidence could arise that Iran is pursuing nuclear weapons, which some</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Turks have said would require Turkey, refusing to accept military inferiority regarding Iran, to do likewise. Turkey’s plans to expand its domestic nuclear energy program would, for the first time, provide its government with the scientific, technical, and industrial foundations to pursue genuine nuclear weapons options, as Iran’s own development of the capacity to make nuclear weapons has demonstrated to Ankara and others.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Recommendations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Europe, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">should take additional steps to strengthen their partnership</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkish policy makers must adopt more of a collective transatlantic perspective and remove its bilateral disputes into the alliance’s multinational deliberations</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Turkey aspires to a leadership role in the alliance, but these policies could lead to thwarted expectations. For example, much of the Western media coverage of Turkey’s activities before the May 2012 NATO Summit focused, not on Turkey’s admirable contributions to NATO’s defense capabilities and in Afghanistan, but on how the Turkish government sought to deny Israel access to any information from the U.S BMD radar on its territory and deny Israelis from having an official presence at the Chicago summit. Turkish diplomats also initially refused to allow EU leaders to attend the summit on the grounds that the EU was making no more contribution to NATO than the 56-member Organization of Islamic Conference, currently led by Ekmeleddin İhsanoğlu, a Turkish national, and other international organizations that were not invited to Chicago. To lead the alliance, Turkish officials need to adopt more of the perspective of a collective NATO stakeholder seeking the greater good of the West. Turkey should also avoid strategic surprises such as agreeing to host military exercises with China without consulting NATO allies.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Human rights and economic issues also complicate relations with the United States and other Western countries. Foreign critics complain about the Turkish government’s repression of media freedoms,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> stalemated efforts to solve the problem of Turkey’s Kurdish minority, and the lack of strong oppositional parties in Turkey. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another </span>constraint <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">on the Turkish-U.S. relationship </span>is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>decreasing<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> U.S. </span>share of Turkey’s trade and investment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which now is oriented more toward the EU and the Middle East. </span>Both governments need to make it easier for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> Turkish and American </span>businesses to trade and invest in each other’s countries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Initiatives are needed </span>to reduce the level of popular hostility in Turkey toward the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates, </span>which limits the depth and breadth of the relationship<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkish-U.S. ties are still focused on government-to-government relations. </span>The relationship needs to encompass<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> civil society and </span>private sector actors more<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====//__Ex-Im investments__// in the //__domestic export supply-chain__// are //__particularly__// key to the //__resilience__// of US-Turkey relations – establishes //__broad economic interests__// which //__overcome foreign policy__// differences==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hochberg 10</span> (Fred P. Hochberg, Chairman and President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, former dean of Milano, The New School for Management and Urban Policy, former acting administrator of the Small Business Administration, MBA Columbia University, speech before the American Turkish Council, 10-19-2010, http://www.exim.gov/newsandevents/events/speechesandtestimony/American-Turkish-Council.cfm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are many objectives that unite the United States and Turkey:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> national security,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> economic prosperity,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> a vibrant democracy,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Middle East stability.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These objectives have guided us through tough times and they are what continue to strengthen the bond between our two countries.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Today, during this challenging time in world history, our relationship is more important than ever.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While national security remains a cornerstone of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> our </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">friendship, </span>business partnerships<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> between American and Turkish companies can—and need to—</span>play a central<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and defining </span>role<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in our relationship in the coming years</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We cannot afford to let opportunities to support</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> each other's </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">economic progress slip away</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>What<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I believe </span>is needed to buttress<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our </span>alliance is commercial diplomacy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>Increased investments and exports<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> will encourage</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more innovation and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> more jobs and prosperity to both our nations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To accomplish this, we must have more forums like this, as well as cultural exchanges and student exchanges to deepen our understanding of each other's culture, history and values.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At </span>the Ex-Im Bank<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we </span>are committed to<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> doing our part to </span>make this vision a reality<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> A vision </span>where the bonds between Turkey and the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>are strengthened<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> by commercial ties</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Since its establishment in 1934, the Ex-Im Bank has had one central objective: to create and sustain American jobs through exports.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Our bank was founded with this goal during the Great Depression and it has remained true to this mission during the recent economic crisis.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Export financing – whether through a loan, insurance or guarantee – can transform American entrepreneurs into thriving global competitors.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President Obama has made it very clear that he views exports as a key factor in our nation's economic recovery efforts.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As part of the National Export Initiative, the President called for our nation to double exports to more than $3 trillion by 2015, adding 2 million jobs to our economy.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ex-Im Bank is doing its part to meet this goal.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Having run my family business for twenty years and taking it public, I appreciate how the private sector measures success in dollars and cents. That is the approach I take to my job. I like report cards. I like hard data that measures our progress.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So I am pleased to report that….</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For fiscal year 2010, which closed just two weeks ago, Ex-Im had a record-breaking year, with nearly $25 billion of new financing representing $33 billion in export sales -- which created or sustained approximately 230,000 jobs.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In Turkey alone, we supported export sales of more than $700 million in FY 2010, an increase of nearly $500 million from the previous year. Our total portfolio for Turkey is $2.2 billion. Not nearly enough considering out two economies.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Furthermore, 1,000 companies across America became clients of Ex-Im for the first time.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> One key point about these numbers:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We did this without costing taxpayers a dime.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Let me repeat that: We did this without costing taxpayers a dime.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We were able to do this because the Bank is self-sustaining, meaning we fund our programs, not from taxpayer dollars, but through fees paid by buyers and borrowers.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In fact we have returned more than $4.5 billion to American taxpayers since 1992.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> However, there is much more to do.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ninety-five percent of the world's consumers live outside the United States.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And this pool of potential global consumers is only growing larger and more affluent. And many of them live in Turkey.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> There will be one billion people entering the middle class around the world by 2020, less than 10 years from now.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So our challenge is to ensure that American companies are competing and selling to these consumers – including our friends in Turkey.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> High-quality American products and services can and should meet the needs of the global community.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> So how do we do it?</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We do it </span>by creating a new supply chain finance program<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, whereby indirect exporters, those companies that supply our larger exporters also get the financial support to compete in the global marketplace</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We do it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by </span>expanding existing credit platforms<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We do it by aggressively marketing our financing to small- and mid-sized businesses</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Opening up new offices</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Streamlining financing for renewable energy exports.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And we do it by working to increase our service sector financing.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When I arrived at EXIM, I wanted to focus our efforts where we could have the greatest impact.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We did a thorough analysis of where the opportunities could be found for American companies.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We narrowed the list of 180 countries down to nine.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And Turkey is one of the nine we are focusing our efforts on.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And that is because of three key factors:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Its fast-growing GDP which is expected to exceed $1 trillion in 2011.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To keep pace with this growth, it has a huge appetite for infrastructure investment. With this comes a demand for rail, energy, telecommunications, and roads. U.S. companies lead the world in providing these types of products and services.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And because of this, Turkey is a place where the innovative financing that Ex-Im provides can really make a difference.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Simply put: Turkey is the fastest growing in economy Europe.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> And I want American companies to be a part of that growth.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Green technology presents perhaps the most promising future area of commercial diplomacy between the United States and Turkey.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We both share the goal of becoming less dependent on fossil fuels.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Turkey, like the U.S., is a large net importer of fossil fuels.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Both Turkish and American leaders understand the importance of nurturing domestically produced renewable energy supplies and the benefits it brings</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Benefits for the environment,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Benefits for economic security and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Benefits for national security.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For example, we recently helped a Cranford, New Jersey, company sell equipment and technology to DT Metals in Turkey for an energy efficiency plant that recycles scrap metal and creates surplus electricity in the process.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Additionally, Ex-Im Bank recently helped small businesses in Wisconsin and Missouri sell concrete transportation equipment for a hydroelectric dam project on the Kizilirmak River in Turkey.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These transactions are creating American jobs and are helping Turkey meet its growing infrastructure needs, while reducing its reliance on outside energy producers.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When I visited Ankara, Turkish government officials and business leaders spoke of an ambitious plan to produce 13,000 megawatts of renewable energy by 2023.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This is a great symbol of progress to mark the 100th anniversary of the Republic's founding.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As chairman of the Ex-Im Bank, I want to ensure that the United States can be a productive partner in this historic undertaking.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In addition to supporting green energy projects, our Board recently approved financing that will support the sale of U.S.-manufactured Boeing long-range aircraft to Turkish Airlines.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This transaction exceeds $1 billion and will support thousands of American jobs at Boeing's plant in Everett, Washington, and its many suppliers around the country.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Some of these planes will be used for the new non-stop routes from Istanbul to Washington, DC and Los Angeles.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Therefore, by providing financing of these long-range aircraft for Turkish Airlines, Ex-Im Bank will be literally financing closer connections between Turkey and the United States. I look forward to flying there directly next time.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Most of our work to date in Turkey has focused on the power and transportation sectors. Power projects supported by Ex-Im over the last 14 years have accounted for an estimated 20 percent of Turkey's power generation.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In addition to renewable energy, electric power and aircraft, I see opportunities in industries such as agribusiness and healthcare, rail and roads.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> These are areas where the innovation of American business can create real opportunities across the Turkish economy, while creating good jobs in communities across the United States.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We know trying to find customers half-way across the globe presents challenges.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As many of you know, in addition to being the largest economy in the world, United States is the largest manufacturer. But we are only number 3 in exports.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> That is unacceptable.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Especially given the opportunities in fast-growing Turkey with whom we also share many common aspirations.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> With the help of the ATC, the Turkish American Business Council and American Friends of Turkey – We will advance the kind of commercial diplomacy necessary to build more connections.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> I would like to conclude with one final thought.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>The power of commercial diplomacy goes well beyond<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>exchange of goods<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and services</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As I mentioned, my trip to Turkey this past summer was primarily focused on Turkey's plans to invest more than $500 billion on infrastructure in the next decade.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But what I witnessed at the Anitkabir broadened my view of why America's participation in this region is so important.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What a nation builds often reflects what she values. Her goals and aspirations.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Whether roads, railroads</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, solar energy plants, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or airplanes -- </span>nations that build together are invested in each other in ways beyond monetary transactions<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Trade and investments – </span>stronger business engagement – reinforce<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>mutual respect and commitment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that exist </span>between<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> nations such as </span>the U.S. and Turkey<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This type of commercial diplomacy guides the work of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port Bank of the United States </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and will remain our focus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as we now begin fiscal year 2011.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The world needs a strong Turkish economy and a strong U.S. economy.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When Turkey succeeds it is not only good for Turkey but for America as well.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Thank you again for this opportunity.</span>

====//__Resilient__// relations are key to prevent multiple scenarios for Eurasian instability, including conflict in the Middle East and the Caucasus==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Albright, et al 12 </span>(Madeleine K. Albright, former Secretary of State and UN Ambassador, Chair, Stephen J. Hadley, U.S. Institute for Peace, Chair, and Steven A. Cook, Project Director, Independent Task Force Report No. 69, “U.S. Turkey Relations: A New Partnership,” 2012, http://i.cfr.org/content/publications/attachments/TFR69_Turkey.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To convert these principles into practical policies and concrete</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> results, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and Turkey need to further strengthen the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">close relationship forged by their two national leaders</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and extend the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> principles to their respective administrations at every level and across</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all relevant departments and agencies. Toward that end, Washington</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and Ankara should establish a government-wide forum for cabinet-level</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> engagement on the model of the Strategic and Economic Dialogue with</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> China or the strategic-level consultations with Israel.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In a departure from the dialogue with China, which includes only</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the highest levels, Turkey and the United States should also conduct</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> frequent and routine talks between their foreign policy and national</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> security organizations to develop a common strategic framework and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> long-term perspective on the core issues of common concern. This dialogue</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on foreign policy and national security issues should be deepened</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the level of U.S. assistant secretaries and their Turkish counterparts</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and should become frequent and routine at that level. In addition, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">intensive</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">interaction and </span>cooperation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> between the two countries in the field</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and between their respective diplomats</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, military personnel, and intelligence</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> officers </span>is critical<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Beyond these process-oriented recommendations, </span>the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>and Turkey have resources<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, assets, and skills </span>that will be complementary<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>in <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">places that have not historically been areas of U.S.-Turkey</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cooperation, including helping various Arab countries achieve democratic</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transitions; </span>ending the bloodshed in Syria<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> through the departure</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of President Bashar al-Assad and the creation of a democratic, cross-sectarian</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">outcome; and </span>dealing with<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the challenge posed by </span>Iran<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">’s</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">pursuit of nuclear weapons, support for terror, and intervention in the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">affairs of its neighbors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>Ankara and Washington must<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> continue </span>cooperat<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ing</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> help </span>sustain the economic and political progress in Iraq <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to assist Iraqis in resolving the remaining cross-sectarian problems</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and tensions. In addition, both countries continue to have a mutually</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">reinforcing role to play in working </span>to bring about stability<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, security,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and peace in Afghanistan and Pakistan<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Washington must also try again to help the Turks and Armenians</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> move forward with the 2009 Turkey-Armenia protocols, which held</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> out the possibility of normalization of relations between the two</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> countries. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Change to the status quo will likely</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> improve Ankara’s relations</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> with Yerevan, which will </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ease the periodic tension between</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey and the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">over the Armenian issue and help pave</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the way for the leadership role in the Caucasus that Turkey desires</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>It<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>would also improve the atmosphere for a resolution of the Nagorno-<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Karabakh problem<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, and the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">should be actively encouraging</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">such a resolution</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Also, the United States must not neglect the Cyprus problem just</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because it seems intractable. The discovery of large deposits of natural</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> gas off the island’s southern coast has the potential to increase tension</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> between Nicosia and Ankara, given Turkey’s insistence that Turkish</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Cypriots share in any economic benefits resulting from the island’s</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> natural resources. Finally, as Turkey becomes more active commercially</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and diplomatically in Africa, Washington and Ankara should develop</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> cooperative programs and initiatives there.</span>

====Conflict in the Middle East is on the brink of escalation – and the time-frame is now==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Stevenson 12-12</span> (Matthew Stevenson, contributing editor of Harper’s Magazine, published in Forbes, the International Herald Tribune, and American Scholar, “The Coming Middle East War,” The New York Times Examiner, 12-3-2012, http://www.nytexaminer.com/2012/12/the-coming-middle-east-war/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Following the maxim that to have peace it’s best to prepare for war, I thought it useful to speculate on the possibility that </span>the Middle East could <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">erupt into a wider conflict, </span>pull<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">ing into its vortex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> many regional powers, not to mention </span>//Russia, China, and the U//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> My fear is that </span>the region is //on the brink// of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a </span>catastrophe<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and that for months the clues leading up to this wider war have been delivered every day on our doorsteps. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The reason that the evidence is not clearer is because, with so much information to process from Syria, Gaza, and beyond, most of us reach whatever conclusions that we already have, which makes it that much harder to connect the dots on other possibilities</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Instead of coming to bury the New York Times, on this occasion I choose to praise it, for dropping hints, allusions, references, and asides that someday may form the smoking gun trail, should the Middle East erupt into a broad war, Armageddon so to speak.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON — </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> American </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">effort to stem the flow of Iranian arms to Syria has faltered</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> because of Iraq’s reluctance to inspect aircraft carrying the weapons through its airspace, American officials say.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The shipments have persisted at a critical time for President Bashar al-Assad of Syria, who has come under increasing military pressure from rebel fighters. The air corridor over Iraq has emerged as a main supply route for weapons, including rockets, antitank missiles, rocket-propelled grenade and mortars.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Iran has an enormous stake in Syria</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which is its staunchest Arab ally and has also provided a channel for Iran’s support to the Lebanese Islamist movement Hezbollah.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To the disappointment of the Obama administration, American efforts to persuade the Iraqis to randomly inspect the flights have been largely unsuccessful.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —New York Times December 1, 2012: “Flow of Arms to Syria Through Iraq Persists, to U.S. Dismay.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If a royal assassination in the Balkans could touch off the Great War, certainly </span>//the combination of the Arab Spring, civil wars in Libya and Syria//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, great power interventions in </span>//Afghanistan and Iraq, suppression in Gaza//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, drones in action, </span>//and the specter of a nuclear Iran could lead to escalation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on fronts that stretch </span>//from the shores of Tripoli to Kashmir//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">An Arab rising in the West Bank and Gaza, supported by Egypt, coupled with a conventional war on the Lebanese border—</span>//routine events//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the Middle East in recent years—</span>might be //all the ingredients needed to trigger a wider war//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Plato said that “only the dead have seen the end of war” without ever having surveyed the modern Middle East, with artificial borders that are a legacy of colonial mapmakers.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, a truism of the Arab Spring is that violent rebellion works, so long as you can get the big guns on your side. Take Libya: Muammar Gaddafi fell because the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) wanted his scalp. Had Russia been on his side, he might have survived or lasted as long as Bashar al-Assad.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> WASHINGTON — The Pentagon has told the Obama administration that any military effort to seize Syria’s stockpiles of chemical weapons would require upward of 75,000 troops, amid increasing concern that the militant group Hezbollah has set up small training camps close to some of the chemical weapons depots, according to senior American officials.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —NYT, November 12, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A wider war could well start around</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the Litani River, a small, meandering stream that bisects </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">southern Lebanon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, south of which is Hezbollah’s military heartland, hard against the north border of Israel.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Hezbollah is a hybrid political, charitable and terrorist organization, and has more guns than the Lebanese National Army and pipelines of money and weaponry from Syria and Iran. It has become the leading political party in Lebanon, putting it at odds with Sunni and Christian interests there, not to mention Israel.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One reason the Syrian civil war is so violent and prolonged is that it has become a proxy battle for the power that will dominate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the headwaters of the Litani around Mount Hermon and Shebaa Farms, where the River Jordan also has its well springs.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If President Assad, together with his patrons in Tehran, manages to hang on in Syria, Hezbollah can continue to influence Lebanon and pressure Israel. An Assad defeat, especially to the Saudi-Qatari coalition, and Hezbollah will die on the vines of southern Lebanon, perhaps those clipped with a follow-up Israeli invasion.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If only to deflect the coalition mounting against him</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, President </span>Assad <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">could well open another front against Israel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">He has shown few qualms about using power and assassination to assert influence in Lebanon</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and I could easily see him </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">enflaming that troubled nation in a last ditch-effort to stay in power</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> No wonder </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is reported</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (November 28, 2012) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that he</span> is readying the use of chemical weapons<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> against the rebels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, although that could be the Saddam ruse to justify a NATO deployment:</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The most urgent decision, likely to come next week, is whether NATO should deploy surface-to-air missiles in Turkey, ostensibly to protect that country from Syrian missiles that could carry chemical weapons. The State Department spokeswoman, Victoria Nuland, said Wednesday that the Patriot missile system would not be “for use beyond the Turkish border.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The regional </span>struggle for power in Syria could<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> well </span>escalate<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> into a larger firefight between Shiite powers (Assad, Iraq, Iran, and Hezbollah) and a Sunni bloc that includes Turkey, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and Jordan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. All have strong reasons for not wanting the other side to prevail in Syria, but those differences might blur if Israel or the United States were involved in the fighting.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> About all that the Arab countries of the Middle East can agree upon is a hatred of Israel, and the recent sound-and-light success of Hamas in its border skirmishes shows other factions that Israel’s conventional approach to war (tanks, rockets, and infantry) matches up poorly against street demonstrators with rocks and homemade missiles.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Ironically, in Syria, Israel has more interest in keeping Assad in power than in seeing a Saudi-dominated government in Damascus. That regime might squeeze Hezbollah, but it could well agitate more forcefully for a return of the Golan Heights and confrontation with Israel—something Assad has only done symbolically.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Nor is it clear how Egypt would respond if there is a cross-border war between Israel and Hezbollah or conflict with its patrons in Iran and Syria. My guess is that Hamas would use such a moment to open a second front and that Cairo would have a hard time staying out of a broader conflict that featured Arabs and Israelis, even though they would have serious pressure from the United States to stand down.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Israel’s existential threat would come from a war in which it was attacked from Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, and Iran. In such a battle, the United States would side with Israel, although I cannot see the Obama administration committing ground troops to another Middle East war, even if Israel were suffering reversals.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Iran’s foreign minister, Ali Akbar Salehi, also addressed the gathering, warning that outside interference could incite violence throughout the region. Arming the opposition would only aggravate the crisis, SANA quoted him as saying.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> France broached the idea last week of lifting the arms embargo on Syria, saying it was studying the idea of helping the rebels. In general, Western nations have avoided providing weapons.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —NYT, November 18, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//Balkan dominoes apply//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to the Middle East </span>//because many of the great powers have client states//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> or groups </span>in the region<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Russia</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, possibly China, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> President </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Assad</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has Israel</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia have the Syrian rebels</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Egypt has Hamas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Syria and Iran have Hezbollah</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">None of these powers wants to see its allies vanquished</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> One reason that the United States invaded Iraq was that it hoped to drive a Western wedge between the axis of evil that joins Syria and Iran. Ironically, it restored to power a Shiite majority that has more sympathy with Assad and Hezbollah, not to mention Tehran, than with its liberators in Washington. For the moment, Shiite influence runs on a line from Tehran to Hezbollah.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For many in the Middle East, </span>//escalation against Israel could be an easier option than doing nothing//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and awaiting defeat on a piecemeal basis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In facing Hamas, the Palestinian Authority, and Hezbollah—not to mention Assad and the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood—</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Israel’s strategy has been to divide and rule along its precarious borders. That option disappears if its enemies find themselves coordinating attacks in a wider, regional conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> There were reports on Sunday of a minor exchange of fire across the border with Israel in the Golan Heights, the third such episode reported this month, and of an artillery shell landing in Jordan.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —NYT, November 18, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In an enflamed border war, for example around the Golan Heights</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, I could well </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">imagine Iran supporting its Syrian coalition, with arms and money, if not with ships and missiles</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Such a conflict would certainly enflame the West Bank and Gaza, bringing Egypt closer to engagement</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> would prefer to stay out of such a fight, unless the disintegration of Syria caused a rebellion for Kurdish independence; then it </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">would be all-in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Russia would not be eager for attacks against Israel that could lead to a confrontation with the United States, but, as in Syria today, it could be counted on to defeat UN resolutions and supply weapons to losing sides.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Another reason to fear broader regional war is because </span>//the U//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>//looks adrift//on desert sands<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Iran has managed to navigate the shoals of its nuclear development without suffering major consequences. Russia and China have picked up the slack of the international sanctions, and the United States and Israel disagree on any military option.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Diplomatically, the weakness of Obama can be seen in the wandering mission</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of Secretary of State Hillary Clinton </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to mediate the crisis in Gaza</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. She posed for pictures in Jerusalem, the West Bank, and Cairo but, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">since the U.S. will not speak with Hamas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, had little say in the terms of the cease-fire, as described by Rami Khouri in the Daily Star (Beirut):</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Perhaps the most significant aspect of the Gaza cease-fire this week was Egypt taking the lead role in mediating that agreement that ended the fighting, while the United States softly shuffled to the side. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Unlike Libya, when the U.S. said it was “leading from behind,” in this case</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, with Secretary of State Hilary Clinton’s last-minute entry into the picture, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the U.S. was more like “following from the front.” </span>Washington <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">remains influential in the Middle East but is </span>//no longer the maestro//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> leading the diplomatic orchestra; instead it </span>//must now coordinate its policies// more practically //with//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> other players in the region, especially</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Egypt and </span>//Turkey//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Clinton had much to be thankful for on Thanksgiving Thursday, when she could get out of the Middle East after spending a few days in the region more or less looking hapless. She showed what it means to be a lame duck – in her own capacity and reflecting America’s foreign policy in the region.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>//Nor does the U//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span>//have much leverage//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in Syria, Iraq, Libya, or Egypt</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkey has staked out a diplomatic course that is independent of NATO and Washington</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Pakistan remains livid about the drone campaign, and Kabul is in a holding pattern until the Americans withdraw and the Taliban returns.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> *</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The irony of the Obama administration is that, despite many headlines, it has little identity in the Middle East, except for the drone campaigns and assassinations.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For a while it worked. As Mr. Obama’s newly fallen director of central intelligence, David H. Petraeus, asked so succinctly a year ago, “Who wouldn’t want a light-footprint strategy?”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> But implicit in Mr. Petraeus’s arch question was the recognition that the strategy has limited utility. And </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">now Mr. Obama is under more pressure than ever to become engaged in the Middle East</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in a way that he avoided during the presidential campaign. In his own party, there are rumblings that he should intervene more directly to halt the slaughter in Syria — by placing Patriot missiles around the region to take down President Bashar al-Assad’s air power — and to renew efforts in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process as soon as the current missile barrages can be contained.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> —NYT, November 17, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">No one is clear if the U.S. is for or against Israeli policies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (especially with new settlements), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a friend or critic of</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Saudi expansion</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in Syria, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the benefactors or opposition of Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood, or the deterrent of nuclear expansion in Iran</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Depending where you look, the U.S. is either the beacon of democracy or just another</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Middle East </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">strongman</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Iraq, Bahrain, Gaza, and Afghanistan, the U.S. opposes opposition voices</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Conversely, it encourages dissent in Libya, Egypt, and Syria</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Yemen, Afghanistan, and Pakistan, it prefers drone violence over diplomacy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Such </span>discrepancies<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> hardly add up to a coherent policy that </span>can be quickly understoodby friends and foes alike<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">—</span>another reason to fear //miscalculation//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> leading to a bigger war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The argument over “Benghazi” is shorthand for American confusion absent whether winter or summer will follow the Arab Spring. The Republicans see al-Qaeda behind many sand dunes.The Obama administration hopes that more democratic governments in Libya, Egypt, and possibly Syria, along with its sanctions against Iran, will usher in a period of regional stability.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Equally probable is that some aggrieved party may utter, “Cry ‘Havoc!’ and let slip the dogs of war,” in a manner that takes the Western world by surprise by the expanse of the fighting. How could Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the Palestinians, Iraq, the Kurds, and Israel not become entangled in an escalating regional war?</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The military historian John Keegan wrote that in August 1914, “War came out of a cloudless sky, to populations which knew almost nothing of it and had been raised to doubt that it could ever again trouble their continent.” In the Middle East, we already know it’s overcast and rainy, with a good chance of gale force winds. </span>

====Goes global and nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russell 9</span> (James A. Russell, senior lecturer in the Department of National Security Affairs at the Naval Postgraduate School, “Strategic Stability Reconsidered: Prospects for Escalation and Nuclear War in the Middle East,” Institut Français des Relations Internationales, Spring 2009, http://www.analyst-network.com/articles/141/StrategicStabilityReconsideredProspectsforEscalationandNuclearWarintheMiddleEast.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Strategic</span> stability<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the region </span>is<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> thus </span>undermined by<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> various factors: (1) </span>asymmetric interests<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the bargaining framework </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that can introduce unpredictable behavior</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from actors; (2) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the presence of </span>non-state actors<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that </span>introduce unpredictability<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> into relationships between the antagonists; (3) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">incompatible assumptions about the structure of the deterrent relationship that makes the bargaining framework strategically unstable</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (4) </span>perceptions by Israel and the U<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>S<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that its window of opportunity for military action is closing, which </span>could prompt a preventive attack<span style="font-size: 8pt;">; (5) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the prospect that </span>Iran’s response<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to pre-emptive attacks could in</span>volve unconventional weapons<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>which<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> could </span>prompt escalation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> by Israel and/or the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates; (6) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the lack of a communications framework to build trust and cooperation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> among framework participants. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">These systemic weaknesses</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the coercive bargaining framework all </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">suggest that escalation by any the parties could happen either on purpose or as a result of miscalculation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or the pressures of wartime circumstance. Given these factors, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it is disturbingly easy to imagine scenarios under which a conflict could quickly escalate in which the regional </span>antagonists would <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consider the </span>use<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of </span>chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">It would be a mistake to believe the nuclear taboo can somehow magically keep nuclear weapons from being used in the context of an unstable strategic framework</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Systemic asymmetries between actors in fact suggest a certain increase in the probability of war – a war in which escalation could happen quickly and from a variety of participants. Once such a war starts, </span>events would<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> likely </span>develop a momentum<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> all their own and decision-making would consequently be shaped in unpredictable ways</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The international community must take this possibility seriously, and muster every tool at its disposal to prevent such an outcome, which would be an unprecedented disaster for the peoples of the region, </span>with substantial risk for the entire world<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====Conflict in the Caucasus is on the brink – uniquely likely to escalate – draws in Europe and Russia – and fastest timeframe for conflict==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dietzen 9-12</span> (Mark Dietzen, Resident Fellow, Regional Studies Center, Streit Council for a Union of Democracies, “Stopping Europe’s Next War: Why Nagorno-Karabakh’s Quest for Freedom and Self-Determination Must be a Foreign Policy Priority,” September 2012, http://streitcouncil.org/uploads/Stopping%20Europe's%20Next%20War%20-%20by%20Mark%20Dietzen.pdf)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Amidst doubt over the U.S.-Russia reset and Europe’s austerity challenges</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nagorno-Karabakh</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Republic’s struggle for freedom and self-determination in the South Caucasus </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">emerged as a rare opportunity for cooperation between the U</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">tates, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Europe and Russia</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">For </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">almost two decades, diplomatic talks</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> between Armenians and Azerbaijanis over NagornoKarabakh, a predominantly Armenian enclave which freed itself from Azerbaijani control during </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the eclipse of the Soviet Union, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">have failed to reach a resolution. Meanwhile, </span>an escalating arms <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>race<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, precipitated by Azerbaijan’s massive defense expenditures and saber-rattling, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">combined </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">with frequent sniper attacks and skirmishes, </span>make Nagorno-Karabakh the //most likely site// of <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Europe’s next </span>war<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>Action must be taken //now//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to prevent this from happening</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The U.S., Europe and Russia must cooperate on making the resolution of the conflict a common </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> foreign policy priority. An escalation of the conflict between Armenians and Azerbaijanis over </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh would threaten each party’s respective foreign policy goals in the region. Tripolar </span>cooperation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> on Nagorno-Karabakh therefore </span>represents a unique opportunity<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to prevent </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">another war in the South Caucasus</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the likes of which have </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">not</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> been </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">seen</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on the continent </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">since </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">World War Two</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Recognizing Nagorno-Karabakh’s legitimate quest for self-determination is the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> only way to secure a lasting and peaceful resolution to this oft ignored, yet critically important </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> conflict.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Trouble on Europe’s Frontier: The Dangers of Renewed Warfare over</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> European Energy Insecurity and Silk Road Sabotage</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Though most European policymakers see the South Caucasus as a remote southeastern frontier, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the region’s geostrategic significance to the continent warrants much greater attention from its </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> capitals. The region has a crucial role as an energy corridor for hydrocarbon resources en route to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Europe from the South Caucasus and Central Asia. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Three of the four major pipelines that </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transport Azerbaijani oil and gas to Europe lie close to the front line positions of Armenian and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Azerbaijani forces</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> stationed along both the Line-of-Contact between the de-facto NagornoKarabakh Republic, Artsakh (hereinafter Nagorno-Karabakh Republic) and Azerbaijan, and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> along the Armenia-Azerbaijan border. These include the Baku-Supsa oil pipeline, the BakuTbilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, and the Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum gas pipeline.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 1</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the event of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">renewed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">warfare, these pipelines would be early targets</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> for Armenian artillery, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">stymieing Europe’s goal </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of diversifying its energy supply</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Furthermore, renewed warfare</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> over Nagorno-Karabakh </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">would severely damage the emerging </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">New Silk Road</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – the revived trade routes which pass through Azerbaijan and Georgia en route to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Europe.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 2</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> One notable casualty of this promising economic thoroughfare would be the BakuTbilisi-Kars railway. Set to be commissioned in 2013, the railway is expected to initially transport one million passengers and 6.5 million tons of cargo per year, with an eventual capacity </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of up to 17 million tons per year.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 3</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This railway will become a critical economic link connecting </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Asian and European markets. It is clearly not in Europe’s economic interest for it to be </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> destroyed. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Jeopardizing the Southern Spur of the Northern Distribution Network</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nor would it be in the U.S. and NATO’s military interest. The Northern Distribution Network</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (NDN), whose implementation has furthered the development of the New Silk Road, plays an </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> important role in transporting U.S. and NATO supplies out of Afghanistan. In November 2011, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Islamabad closed NATO supply routes between Pakistan and Afghanistan, following a U.S. air </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> strike that accidentally killed 24 Pakistani troops. Over the next seven months, NATO became</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> almost completely reliant on the NDN, as evidenced by NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Rasmussen’s June, 2012 announcement that the alliance had reached an agreement with </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan to allow for the withdrawal of alliance equipment </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> through their respective territories en route to Russia and finally to the Latvian port at Riga.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This arrangement suggested the alliance’s increasing doubt that Pakistan would reopen its less </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> expensive routes to Afghanistan, whose costs are roughly 17% of those of the NDN.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 4</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> following a July 3 statement by U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, in which she said the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> U.S. was sorry for the Pakistani military’s losses, Islamabad told Washington that it would </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> reopen NATO supply routes into Afghanistan.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 5</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Despite the restoration of this vital artery, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> relations between the U.S. and Pakistan remain very poor. There is no guarantee that Pakistan </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> will keep its supply routes with Afghanistan open, which makes it imperative that the NDN </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> remain viable.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Though the route outlined above will be NDN’s primary conduit for evacuating vehicles and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> other military equipment from Afghanistan, its Southern Spur – extending from the Georgian </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> port at Poti to Afghanistan via Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan – is an important </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> alternative pathway. It is the NDN’s only route which does not traverse Russian territory. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Renewed conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh would undoubtedly disrupt this route significantly and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> very likely close it altogether. If Pakistan were to once again close its supply routes with </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Afghanistan, and the NDN’s southern route were lost, all roads out of Afghanistan would have to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pass through Russia. Certainly, Russia’s present cooperation with NATO’s withdrawal should be </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> praised; it is a sign that there is still hope for the continuation of a “reset” in relations between </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Washington and Moscow. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, given the recent return of Vladimir Putin as Russia’s president, and the upcoming </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 2012 U.S. presidential election, such cooperation, however desirable, is not guaranteed. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> One need only to be reminded of presumptive Republican Party nominee Mitt Romney’s </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> campaign statement that Russia is America’s “top geopolitical adversary” to understand the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> potential for damage in bilateral relations.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 6</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> War Today Would Be Much Worse than in the Early 1990s</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>Renewed warfare over Nagorno-Karabakh would be significantly more deadly<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and more </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">destructive than</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">previous conflict</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, when Nagorno-Karabakh freed itself from nearly seven </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> decades Soviet-imposed Azerbaijani control. In a Fall 2011 presentation at the Center for </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Strategic and International Studies, Colonel Jon Chicky of the National War College identified </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict as the most dangerous in the greater Caucasus region, stating that </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a future conflict there will surpass the lethality of the previous one </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">by orders of magnitude</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 7</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Colonel Chicky cited as evidence that, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">over the past 5 to 6 years there has been an increase in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">numbers and sophistication of regional armaments,” including “drones, advanced air and missile </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">defense systems, long range artillery and rocket systems [and] tactical ballistic missiles</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 8</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> He </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> drew special attention to the dangers posed by three specific armament types: long-range </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> multiple rocket launchers, high-altitude and long-range surface to air missile systems, and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> ballistic missiles.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 9</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In addition, Colonel Chicky also highlighted the 2008 and 2010 Mardakert skirmishes (a </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> northern region of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic), the rising number of ceasefire violations </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> since 2009, and the fact that both the Armenians and the Azerbaijanis have weapons which can </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> reach far past the Nagorno-Karabakh Line-of-Contact and its immediate vicinity.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 10</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Renewed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">combat would involve counter-value targeting deep within both Armenia and Azerbaijan</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 11</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> would include major cities (including Baku and Yerevan), oil and gas installations, power plants </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (such as Armenia’s nuclear power station at Metsamor), highways, bridges and airports, among </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> other sites. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The capacity for death and destruction is truly frightening</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Spillover Effects: How Nagorno-Karabakh May Spur a Regional Proxy War</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If war breaks out again over Nagorno-Karabakh, it will not be limited to the area</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in and around </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the enclave itself, as it largely was during the early 1990s. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Rather, </span>it promises to be a full-scale <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>war<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> between Armenia, allied with the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic, and Azerbaijan</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A renewed </span>war would feature greater roles played by the //major regional powers//, Russia, Turkey <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>and Iran<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, than during the last conflagration. Though the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic is not </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> included in </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Russia’s security treaty with Armenia</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the pact </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">could be invoked should the conflict </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">spill over onto Armenia’s territory, which is a very likely scenario</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 12</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One would also be remiss to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">overlook Russia’s significant economic interests in Armenia</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. Should renewed warfare over </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh surpass the threshold for economic risk, Russia might be prompted to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> intervene. Albeit not bound by treaty obligation, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Azerbaijan’s closest ally, Turkey, would </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">likewise offer</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijan </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">its tacit, even open, support</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 13</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Considering the fractious relations between Iran and Azerbaijan, particularly over the latter’s </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> close ties with Israel, Iran would keep its trade routes open with Armenia in the event of another </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> armed conflict, as it did in the 1990s. And direct Iranian support to the Armenians should not be</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> entirely ruled out. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The Iranian regime may see renewed armed conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as a convenient way for it to weaken what it sees as a growing overt and covert Israeli presence </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">in Azerbaijan. </span>This has all the makings for a proxy war of //epic magnitude//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Stoking the Hornet’s Nest: Regional Instability and North Caucasus Terrorism</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The contagion of renewed armed conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh would spread its infection</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from the South Caucasus to the North Caucasus, long a haven for Islamic terrorist groups. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Warfare between the Armenians and Azerbaijanis would create a more fertile environment for </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> these organizations to pursue their own destructive goals. This is an acutely sensitive issue for </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Russia, which has long toiled to suppress unrest along its North Caucasian frontier and root out </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> terrorists there. In March 2010, a terrorist attack on Moscow’s metro by two female suicide </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> bombers from Dagestan killed 39 people, followed by the January 2011 suicide attack at </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Moscow’s Domodedovo airport, which killed 36. Chechen warlord Doku Umarov, who claimed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> responsibility for both attacks, was also recently accused of masterminding a thwarted plot to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> attack the 2014 Winter Olympics, to be held in Sochi, a Russian resort city along the Black Sea </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> coast in the North Caucasus.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 14</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Preventing further unrest in its most volatile region is clearly in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Moscow’s interest.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Kosovo of the Caucasus: Preventing War and Protecting Freedom in the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh Republic</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Much attention within expert and political circles on both sides of the Atlantic has focused on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> warning of the dangerous consequences of renewed armed conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, comparatively less attention has been devoted to what specific actions could be taken </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to prevent a further escalation of tension between the Armenians and Azerbaijanis. The ensuing </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> section seeks to rectify this by offering pragmatic policy recommendations that the U.S., Europe </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and Russia can cooperate on in order to prevent Nagorno-Karabakh from becoming Europe’s</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> next war.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> A Reciprocal Removal of Snipers from the Line-of-Contact Must be a Priority</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In 1992, the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE), the predecessor of the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), created the Minsk Group to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> facilitate a peaceful resolution to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 15</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Minsk Group is cochaired by France, Russia and the U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 16</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Though Armenia, Azerbaijan, and the NagornoKarabakh Republic signed a ceasefire in 1994, an estimated 30 people on each side of the Lineof-Contact in Nagorno-Karabakh have been killed by sniper fire every year since then.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 17</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> That</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> comes to an unofficial estimate of over 1,000 Armenian and Azerbaijani deaths over the past 18 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> years. The Minsk Group proposed to Armenia and Azerbaijan that both sides remove their </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> snipers at the OSCE ministerial summit in Helsinki in December 2008. Though Armenia agreed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to the removal of snipers, Azerbaijan rejected the proposal, seeing sniping as a means of keeping </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pressure on the Armenian side and disallowing the maintenance of the status quo. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, sniping has not achieved its desired aims for Azerbaijan for almost two decades. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Rather, it has made the Armenian-controlled buffer zones which form a security perimeter </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> around the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic look increasingly like a national security necessity</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> rather than a bargaining chip in the event of compromise with Azerbaijan. Moreover, sniping</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> carries the dangerous risk of triggering domino-effect responses that could reignite all-out</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> warfare.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 18</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Minsk Group co-chair countries must increase high-level diplomatic pressure on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the Armenians and Azerbaijanis to reciprocally remove their snipers from the Line-of-Contact. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The withdrawal of snipers is the most immediate and practical way to prevent further armed </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> conflict over Nagorno-Karabakh.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Stop Ceasefire Violations: The Need for an Incident-Investigation Mechanism</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Currently, the Minsk Group’s monitoring team tasked with overseeing the conflict has only 6 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> representatives to observe events on the ground, and their resources to do so are limited.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 19</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> contingent needs to be supplemented – both in the number of monitors and the resources at their </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> disposal – to allow it to function more effectively. Furthermore, they need to have the authority </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to “name and shame” those responsible for the ceasefire violations. Since the ceasefire’s signing </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in 1994, the Minsk Group has continually expressed its condemnation of violent incidents </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> between Armenian and Azerbaijan forces. However, the absence of a mechanism for </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> investigating incidents on the frontlines has prevented the Minsk Group from assigning </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> responsibility for ceasefire violations. This has created an environment where there is little </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> incentive for the party perpetrating the ceasefire violation to change its behavior.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Armenia is in favor of an incident-investigation mechanism on the Line-of-Contact. On June 12, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 2012, in a joint news conference in Yerevan with OSCE Chairperson-in-Office, Ireland's Deputy </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Eamon Gilmore, Armenian Foreign Minister Eduard </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nalbandian expressed his country’s support for such a mechanism.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 20</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, during Gilmore’s </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> joint news conference in Baku two days later, Azerbaijani Foreign Minister Elmar </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Mammadyarov said that Azerbaijan’s support is conditional on Armenian forces withdrawing </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from the buffer zones around the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. “This will work only if Armenian </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> forces withdraw from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan,” he stated, adding “if the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> mechanism is put to work now, it would mean consolidating the status quo, which is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> unacceptable.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 21</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Such a deliberate attempt to tie an OSCE-mandated conflict-management </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> mechanism – meant to save both Azerbaijani and Armenian lives – to an unrealistic and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> maximalist Azerbaijani demand should not be overlooked.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Considering Baku’s unwillingness to support an incident-investigation mechanism, the U.S.,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Europe and Russia should take this opportunity to implement such a mechanism on the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Armenian side of the Line-of-Contact. Doing so would send a clear signal that they are serious </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> about decreasing tension over Nagorno-Karabakh. This would be especially timely following the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> recent spate of violence along the Armenian-Azerbaijani border and the Nagorno-Karabakh </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Line-of-Contact from June 4-6, 2012, which coincided with U.S Secretary of State Hillary </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Clinton’s visit to the South Caucasus. The clashes claimed the lives of 4 Armenian and 5 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijani soldiers. Speaking after talks with Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev in Baku on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> June 6, 2012, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Clinton warned</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">an escalation in violence between Armenian and Azerbaijani </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">forces “could have unpredictable and disastrous consequences,” and</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> said “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">this cycle of violence </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and retaliation must end</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 22</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Clinton’s exhortation was echoed two days later by the EU’s High Representative for Foreign</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Affairs and Security Policy, Catherine Ashton, who released a statement expressing her serious </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> concern about the border violence and called “on both sides strictly to respect the ceasefire and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> exercise restraint on the ground and in public statements in order to prevent a further escalation </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of the situation, which has been deteriorating during the last several months.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 23</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> On June 9, 2012, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the Russian Foreign Ministry stated that the border incidents were “unacceptable” and,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> reinforcing its words with actions, its military spokesman, Colonel Igor Gorbul, said that Russian </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> fighter jets were executing an increasing number of training flights over Armenia.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 24</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Further, on June 20, 2012, Moscow stated that it would double Russia’s troop strength in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Armenia by year’s end.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 25</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> New Ideas Needed for Conflict Prevention: Looking for More from the EU, OSCE and the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> UN</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Director for Europe and Central Asia at the International Peace Institute, Dr. Walter Kemp,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> recently argued that the Incident Prevention and Response Mechanism currently in place in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Georgia – a joint endeavor by the European Union Monitoring Mission (EUMM) and the OSCE</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – might provide a model for the type of mechanism needed for investigating incidents on the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh frontlines.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 26</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> However, in stating its intention to maintain an active sniping </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> policy, Azerbaijan has blocked the Minsk Group from implementing such a mechanism. If the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Minsk Group is unable to move forward with this proposal, it is difficult to imagine it having any </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> success in developing a peacekeeping operation in Nagorno-Karabakh as envisioned by its</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> mandate.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 27</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Considering the Minsk Group’s inability to implement sorely needed conflict </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> prevention measures, the U.S., Europe and Russia must act now to devise another way of </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> instituting an oversight system for border incidents between Armenian and Azerbaijani forces </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> along the Nagorno-Karabakh Line-of-Contact. We cannot afford to wait any longer.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> As an alternative to an OSCE peacekeeping operation, Dr. Kemp suggests that the UN consider a </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> preventive deployment, modeled after the United Nations Preventive Deployment Force</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (UNPREDEP) in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 28</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> By December 1995, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> UNPREDEP was administering 24 permanent observation posts along 420 kilometers on the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Macedonian side of the border with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Albania. In addition, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> it had 33 temporary observation posts, and oversaw nearly 40 border and community patrols </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> every day.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 29</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This mission was successful in increasing stability and decreasing tension between </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the conflicting parties, and could be replicated along the Nagorno-Karabakh Line-of-Contact, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> which at 177 kilometers is less than half as long as the one UNPREDEP monitored in the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Balkans.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 30</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> A Seat at the Table: Time to Take the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic Seriously</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> When the 1994 ceasefire was signed following Nagorno-Karabakh’s six-year struggle to secure </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> its independence from Azerbaijan, it included three signatories: Armenia, Azerbaijan, and the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 31</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Up to 1997, representatives of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> participated in the peace talks, until Azerbaijan demanded they be excluded.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 32</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Since 1998, negotiations have been conducted between Azerbaijan and Armenia, with Yerevan </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> speaking on behalf of both Armenia and the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. This current format </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> has proven to be ineffective: it is time for the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic to return to its seat at </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the negotiating table. After all, the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, in its most recent phase, arose </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> out of the desire of the predominantly ethnic Armenian Nagorno-Karabakh to be free from</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijani rule. In fact, the conflict began during the late 1980s as a civil war between the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> former Soviet Nagorno-Karabakh Autonomous Oblast (AO) and Soviet Azerbaijan.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 33</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This began </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on February 20, 1988, when the Nagorno-Karabakh AO appealed to Moscow to be reassigned </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from Soviet Azerbaijan to Soviet Armenia.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 34</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The deadly anti-Armenian pogroms that took place shortly thereafter, from February 27-29, in </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the Baku suburb of Sumgait, Azerbaijan, sparked inter-ethnic violence between armed Armenian </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and Azerbaijani militias that had formed in Nagorno-Karabakh.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 35</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Since Nagorno-Karabakh had </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> been disallowed from changing its status from an Autonomous Oblast of Soviet Azerbaijan to an </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Autonomous Oblast of Soviet Armenia, it took immediate action once Azerbaijan declared</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> independence from the Soviet Union on Friday, August 30, 1991. Just three days later on </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Monday, September 2, 1991, Nagorno-Karabakh announced its secession from Azerbaijan,</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> proclaiming itself the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 36</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This was affirmed by a December 10 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> referendum supporting Nagorno-Karabakh’s independence (which Nagorno-Karabakh’s </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijani minority chose to boycott), and a January 6, 1992 declaration of independence.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 37</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It is </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> important to recall Nagorno-Karabakh’s timeline because it shows consistent efforts at secession </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> from Azerbaijan. Although it ultimately broke away from Azerbaijan through a forceful struggle, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> it first attempted to do so through the only legal and democratic means available to it at the time.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Over the past two decades, the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic has striven to be taken seriously by </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the international community. It satisfies the traditional criteria for statehood as prescribed by </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Article 1 of the Montevideo Convention on Rights and Duties of States, which explains that “the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> state as a person of international law should possess the following qualifications: a ) a permanent </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> population; b ) a defined territory; c ) government; and d) capacity to enter into relations with the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> other states.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 38</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It has a population of about 145,000 people. Despite its territorial dispute with </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijan, it has a defined territory, and currently controls about 11,722 sq. km.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 39</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Its government is a presidential democracy, which, although currently unrecognized, does have </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the capacity to enter into relations with other states – neighboring Armenia being the most </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> obvious example.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 40</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> In addition, the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic has permanent representatives </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> in Armenia, Australia, France, Germany, Lebanon, Russia and the United States.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 41</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The NagornoKarabakh Republic has its own army – the Nagorno-Karabakh Defense Army – which is about </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 20,000 strong, and is considered to have from 20,000-30,000 reservists.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 42</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> These are very </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> significant numbers considering its population. In addition, it may have the greatest per capita </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> armor ratio in the world, deploying as many as 300 battle tanks.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 43 While the Nagorno-Karabakh</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Republic’s economy is primarily agricultural and heavily dependent on support from Armenia </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> and the Armenian Diaspora, this is not symptomatic of a failed economic system, but rather the</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> result of the damaging effects brought about by the Nagorno-Karabakh War and its geographic </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> isolation.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It is high time for the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic’s development as a free and democratic state</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> to be taken more seriously by the international community, especially following its 2012 </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> presidential election, which generally adhered to international standards.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 44</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This should begin </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> with France, Russia and the U.S. supporting the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic’s return to its seat </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> at the Minsk Group negotiating table. This is already being discussed within political and expert </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> circles. In June, 2012, the director of the Yerevan-based Regional Studies Center, Richard </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Giragosian, commented on U.S. Secretary of State Clinton’s remarks that new proposals for the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Minsk Group would be presented at the June 18, 2012 Minsk Group meeting in Paris. Though </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the proposals are currently unknown to the public, Giragosian said “I expect it to be [a] new </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> format of talks, with NKR becoming [a] full member of negotiations.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 45</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Recognition of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic’s independence is not only prudent, but </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> necessary, following the recent “Safarov Affair,” in which Azerbaijan immediately freed and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pardoned convicted axe-murderer Ramil Safarov, an Azerbaijani officer who brutally hacked to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> death an Armenian officer, Gurgen Margarian, while he slept during a 2004 NATO-sponsored </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> course in Budapest. After spending eight years in jail in Hungary, Safarov was extradited to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Azerbaijan on August 31, 2012, after Hungary received written assurance from the Azerbaijani</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Justice Ministry that he would serve at least 25 years of a life sentence there.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 46</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Adding insult to </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> injury, upon his return, Azerbaijan also awarded Safarov “a new apartment, eight years of back </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> pay, a promotion to the rank of major and the status of a national hero.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 47</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> This incident is ultimate confirmation that any Azerbaijani assurance regarding the “future </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> determination of the final legal status of Nagorno-Karabakh through a legally binding expression </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of will,” as stated in the Minsk Group’s Madrid Principles - the proposed peace settlement to the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Nagorno-Karabakh conflict - cannot be trusted.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> 48</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> The Madrid Document is dead. In gaining the </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> undeserved freedom of a self-admitted murderer, and officially condoning his shameful</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Armenocidal act, Azerbaijan has solidified its permanent loss of any future claim to NagornoKarabakh. Its independence has reached a point of no return.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Conclusion: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Transatlantic Action Must be Taken on Nagorno-Karabakh</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Or Else</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Following the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with their great economic and political costs, and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the continued fallout from the 2008 global financial crisis, the U.S., Europe and Russia have </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> each turned increasingly inward in focus. This has raised the standard for selecting which </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> conflicts and threats to address, based largely upon a cost-benefit analysis in relation to national </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> interests. The Nagorno-Karabakh conflict clearly passes the test: tri-polar action is needed </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">now, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">before it becomes Europe’s next war, with all of the nasty and widespread consequences that </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">would entail</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> It would be wrong to view the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict through a Cold War prism. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This is not </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a zero-sum game, in which Nagorno-Karabakh represents the prize in a West-versus-East </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">struggle for South Caucasian dominance. Very much to the contrary, it is a unique opportunity </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">for the U.S.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">, Europe and Russia </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to step up their cooperative efforts in facilitating</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">resolution</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of a conflict which threatens their respective interests in the South Caucasus.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Nagorno-Karabakh could save the U.S.-Russian “reset,” and usher in a new era of European-Russian cooperation, or submerge the region into a brutal war with devastating and unpredictable </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">consequences</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">. At the same time, recognizing the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic’s justified pursuit</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> of self-determination as a free and independent state is the only way of securing a peaceful and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> lasting resolution to the conflict. </span>//There is little time remaining//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to stop Europe’s next war. The </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">clock is ticking</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

====Goes global and nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blank 2k</span> (Stephen Blank, Strategic Studies Institute, U.S. Army War College, “US Military Engagement with Transcaucasia and Central Asia,” June 2000, http://www.bits.de/NRANEU/docs/Blank2000.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Washington’s burgeoning military-political-economic involvement seeks, inter alia, to demonstrate the U.S. ability to project military power even into this region or for that matter, into Ukraine where NATO recently held exercises that clearly originated as an anti-Russian scenario. Secretary of Defense William Cohen has discussed strengthening U.S.-Azerbaijani military cooperation and even training the Azerbaijani army, certainly alarming Armenia and Russia.69 And Washington is also training Georgia’s new Coast Guard.70 However, Washington’s well-known ambivalence about committing force to Third World ethnopolitical conflicts suggests that U.S. military power will not be easily committed to saving its economic investment. But this ambivalence about committing forces and </span>the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> dangerous </span>situation, where Turkey is allied to Azerbaijan and Armenia<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> is bound </span>to Russia, create<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the potential for wider and more </span>protracted<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> regional </span>conflicts<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> among local forces</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In that connection, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Azerbaijan and Georgia’s growing efforts to secure NATO’s lasting involvement in the region, coupled with Russia’s determination to exclude other rivals, foster a polarization along very traditional lines</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.71 In 1993 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Moscow even threatened World War III to deter Turkish intervention on behalf of Azerbaijan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Yet the new Russo-Armenian Treaty and Azeri-Turkish treaty suggest that </span>Russia and Turkey could be dragged in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to a confrontation to rescue their allies from defeat</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.72 Thus </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">many of the conditions for conventional war or protracted ethnic conflict in which third parties intervene are present in the Transcaucasus</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. For example, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">many</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Third World </span>conflicts<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> generated by local structural factors </span>have<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> a great </span>potential for unintended escalation<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Big powers often feel obliged to rescue their lesser proteges and proxies</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One or another big power may fail to grasp the other side’s stakes since interests here are not as clear</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> as in Europe. Hence commitments involving the use of nuclear weapons to prevent a client’s defeat are not as well established or apparent. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Clarity about the nature of the threat could prevent</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the kind of </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">rapid and almost uncontrolled escalation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> we saw in 1993 when </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Turkish noises about intervening on behalf of Azerbaijan led Russian leaders to threaten a nuclear war</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in that case. 73 Precisely </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because Turkey is a NATO ally, </span>Russian nuclear threats <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">could </span>trigger a<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> potential </span>nuclear blow<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (not a small possibility given the erratic nature of Russia’s declared nuclear strategies). The real threat of a Russian nuclear strike against Turkey to defend Moscow’s interests and forces in the Transcaucasus makes the danger of major war there higher than almost everywhere else</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As Richard Betts has observed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The greatest danger lies in areas where (1) the potential for serious instability is high; (2) both superpowers perceive vital interests; (3) neither recognizes that the other’s perceived interest or commitment is as great as its own; (4) both have the capability to inject conventional forces; and, (5) neither has willing proxies capable of settling the situation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.74</span>


===1ac agriculture=== 

====Advantage Three is //__Agriculture__//:==== 
====The Bank’s focus on integrating //__rural and regional infrastructure__// is key to sustainably increase U.S. //__ag exports__//==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Likosky 11</span> (Michael Likosky, “Kerry's American Infrastructure Bank,” Huffington Post, 3-15-2011, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-likosky/kerry-infrastructure-bank_b_836203.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Today, a rare thing happened in the United States Senate. A major bill was unveiled aiming to invest in America's infrastructure. It has bipartisan sponsors -- Senator John Kerry (D-MA) and Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX). Tom Donohue (President and CEO of the US Chamber of Commerce) and Richard Trumka (President of the AFL-CIO) stood up at the press conference to endorse it. The bill would create an American Infrastructure Bank. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This American Infrastructure Financing Authority would invest in projects of regional and national significance across a number of sectors from transportation to water to energy. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Importantly, it's not just an infrastructure bank for big cities. Although the metropolitan regions throughout the country will clearly benefit. It will invest instead on America's strength as a nation -- the same way our competitors in China and Germany do. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The </span>investments from the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> American </span>Bank will be felt in rural communities which are fast becoming<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only our clean energy heartland but also </span>an exporting force<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in their own right </span>as food prices rise throughout the world<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Similarly, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">our </span>farmlands<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and once abandoned manufacturing centers </span>will benefit from infrastructure investments from<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Kerry </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bank </span>as they resurge as innovative regional clusters<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> from upstate New York to the Rust Belt. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Another reason why the Kerry Bank enjoys broad based support is that it will meet our investment needs by leveraging private capital to fuel projects that American workers build. Here, rather than outlaying the enormous sums needed to rebuild this country, the American Bank will use its money like honey to attract private investment, what are called public-private-partnerships. </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Moreover, Senator Kerry's Bank is </span>modeled off the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> US </span>Ex<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span>Im<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span>Bank<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> invests in public-private-partnerships abroad. The Export-Import Bank has helped lay fiber optic cables around the world and driven the East Asian Miracle. It's time to do this for ourselves again. What's more, the Export-Import Bank </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">has been around for over 75 years -- it's </span>a solid model with a long track-record<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> We will hopefully see President Obama endorse the American Infrastructure Bank. In important ways, it resembles the Infrastructure Bank that he forcefully proposed in Janesville, Wisconsin on the campaign trail which I recently described in my book: Obama's Bank: Financing a Durable New Deal. It certainly is based upon the same public-private-partnership approach to our economy that has become the cornerstone of his Presidency. However, Senator Kerry's Bank also innovates on Obama's approach and makes clear how such an Infrastructure Bank can work in practice. </span>

====Alternative mechanisms fail==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Crooks & Quadt 12</span> (Ed Crooks, vice president, and Michelle Quadt, principal, Booz Allen Hamilton, “Rethinking Infrastructure Funding,” AOL Government, 4-20-2012, http://gov.aol.com/2012/04/20/rethinking-infrastructure-funding/)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Commentary: For quite some time now, Americans have been hearing about the dire state of infrastructure in the US. It's clear that </span>traditional sources <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of funding new projects and repairs </span>are struggling to keep the nation's infrastructure from falling apart<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, let alone thrive</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. What isn't as clear is how to fix it. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Formula grants distributed through the Highway Trust Fund have long been the preferred way to fund infrastructure. But the inefficiency of earmarks and the decrease in revenues from the gas tax are posing significant challenges for this funding model</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. At the same time, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">cities and </span>//states//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> have assumed a growing role in infrastructure funding but </span>//are//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> now </span>//getting squeezed//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> with the financial crisis</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>//Bond issuances//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, once a boon for raising plentiful funding </span>infrastructure //have seen a sharp decline recently// due to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> three main factors: </span>//restrictions on new debt//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for hard-pressed municipalities, </span>//credit rating downgrades//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> which have increased the cost of borrowing, and the </span>//collapse//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in 2009 </span>//of//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>//monoline bond insurers//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> which have made bonds both riskier for investors and more expensive for issuers. Further funding pressure will come from a growing population, changes in technology and the need to remain competitive in the global economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We need to reimagine infrastructure funding, moving away from earmarks and specific formula grants and towards an approach that looks at long-term infrastructure needs across sectors and maximizes the sources of funding that can be used to finance qualified projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Here are two clear steps to get us there. Break Free from the Siloed Infrastructure Funding Maze and Red Tape </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Currently, public funding for infrastructure comes from </span>//a maze of programs//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, each with specific objectives and policies. As a result, it's difficult to finance intermodal projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> where transit funding needs to come from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), airport funding needs to come from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), and other funding needs to come from other sources. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This maze of rules and policies makes it challenging to combine sources of funding for complex projects. As a consequence, there are currently </span>no public financing mechanisms<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that </span>look at infrastructure //at the regional level//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> or across sectors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>A more //unified strategic approach//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to modernizing the nation's infrastructure </span>would allow a public vision of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the country's </span>infrastructure and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> its </span>competitiveness //as a whole//, taking advantage of<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> potential </span>economies of scale<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Other deep-seated issues that need to be addressed to fully reform the U.S. infrastructure sector include the fact that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">project development is hampered by a long permitting process and the </span>regulatory //uncertainty//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> it creates, which can </span>discourage private investment<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In addition, the current funding system is underpinned by red tape in the form of unnecessary tax regulations to fund trust funds and state and federal programs that give preferential treatment to some investment vehicles. Create a National Infrastructure Bank to Leverage New Forms of Ownership and Operation Private funding is becoming increasingly important for U.S infrastructure, particularly transportation, as 31 states and one territory have now passed legislation enabling public-private partnerships (P3) for infrastructure projects. P3 is attractive because the private sector can more easily access large amounts of capital upfront than public entities, which have to go through annual budget processes. As a result, it can help get projects completed faster than traditional public processes. On the other hand, the public sector can help ensure that infrastructure projects have a source of long term debt and better financing terms. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">One way to help solve these challenges is to create a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> National Infrastructure Bank (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">NIB</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">designed to leverage but not crowd out private capital</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. This is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">similar to what the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) and the U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Ex</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Im</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bank are doing for their more limited mandate</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">s. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The role of the NIB should be to close the funding gap and enable creditworthy projects to receive private funding</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Key features of the NIB should therefore include long repayment schedules and large lending limits, which are more difficult for private lenders to provide. A good example of where the NIB could complement private funding is the water sector – projects tend to have lower returns on investment than other sectors, so low interest rate financing for part of the capital costs can help improve the attractiveness of projects for private investors. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In order </span>to //avoid the perception of excessive public spending and waste//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>the NIB should be<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> structured and behave as </span>an //independently governed//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>//self-sustaining//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> financial </span>institution<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, which bases its lending decisions on pure economic</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and financial </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">criteria</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">This implies </span>providing //loans//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and guarantees </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but no grants</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and using a thorough financial due diligence process that focuses on risk. Transparent processes such as Value for Money (used by the UK Treasury and Australian states) can be used to justify investment and communicate the benefits of infrastructure investment to the general public. A portfolio approach can be used to ensure that the bank invests across all sectors and prioritizes projects accordingly. In addition, the NIB should carry over some of the principles from TIFIA that force discipline (e.g. cannot fund more than 33% of project cost, must have other senior debt, senior debt must be investment grade) to ensure it's not taking excessive financial risks and that its funding is complemented by the private sector. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Creating a NIB will not be easy. But much of </span>//the challenge can be mitigated by increasing funding for an existing program//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> with a long-term vision of </span>reforming the system<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, rather than setting up a new government agency which would be much more costly and less effective</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Both </span>the<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> U.S. </span>//Ex//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port-</span>//Im//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">port </span>//Bank//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (OPIC) </span>//have experience in infrastructure lending//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, internal </span>//project screening//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and approval processes and </span>//staff of investment professionals experienced in project finance and//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> related due diligence</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Both have </span>//a proven track record//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of being successful in leveraging private investment for large projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, albeit in emerging markets. </span>//Housing the NIB under//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> one of </span>//those institutions could help jumpstart//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the U.S-focused </span>//infrastructure credit//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> program </span>//in a shorter period of time// and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> potentially </span>with a //better public reception//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> than setting up a brand new agency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Getting the Job Done </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">As our nation's infrastructure continues to deteriorate, one look at the massive intermodal infrastructure projects being completed around the globe makes it clear the US can and should do better</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. We know the challenges we face. It's well understood that infrastructure is vital to our country's future. Now </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it's about putting the underlying structures in place that can effectively marshal and direct the necessary resources to fun infrastructure projects</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">By </span>//breaking free from the siloed funding maze and red tape//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and by leveraging new forms of ownership and operation </span>//through the creation of an efficient////N//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ational </span>//I//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nfrastructure </span>//B//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ank </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">we can get the job done right</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====That’s key to global food security – resolves price //__volatility__// and supply chain //__resilience__//==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">World Economic Forum 10</span> (in collaboration with Citi, Marsh & McLennan Companies (MMC), Swiss Re, Wharton School Risk Center, Zurich Financial Services; “Global Risks 2010,” January 2010, https://members.weforum.org/pdf/globalrisk/globalrisks2010v1/infrastructure.htm)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Underinvestment in Infrastructure </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Global Risks 2009 noted the importance of spending decisions as governments launched fiscal stimulus packages to boost growth and create jobs. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Infrastructure investment choices are key at any time but they are particularly critical, if the dual challenge of population growth and climate change is to be met, in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> five areas: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">agriculture</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, energy, water, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transportation and climate change adaptation</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Global Risks </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Expert</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Perception </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Survey</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2010 </span>data shows underinvestment in infrastructure as one of the most highly interconnected risks<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> on the RIM (Figure 14). The strongest links are </span>to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> fiscal crises, oil prices and natural catastrophes</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, but it also links to health issues, including </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">infectious diseases as well as chronic diseases, and to food </span>price volatility<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. The World Bank has put global infrastructure investment needs at US$ 35 trillion over the next 20 years. In the US alone, the American Society of Civil Engineers rated US critical infrastructure as a "D" (where "A" is the highest grade) in 2009 and estimated that US$ 2.2 trillion was necessary over the next five years. The US spends approximately 2.4% of GDP per annum on infrastructure, compared with approximately 15% of GDP on health. Underinvestment infrastructure is not just a risk to existing structures in the developed world, if it is not addressed it is also a barrier to growth and development in the developing world as well.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> New and existing infrastructure is critical to resilience</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The last decade has seen the rise of the public-private partnership model for large infrastructure projects, many of which are needed in countries where the political and governance environment are far from ideal or even stable. Traditionally, the state is seen as the driver of major infrastructure projects, such as road, rail, energy and water grids. The initial investment is made by governments, with private enterprise running the delivery and service aspects through licensing or other long-term agreements. However, as discussed earlier in this report, many governments must manage the critical maintenance and renewal of existing infrastructure, as well as new, large-scale projects in energy, transportation and urbanization, in the face of widening fiscal deficits and growing debt.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> For other countries, including many emerging markets, the barriers may not be weak fiscal positions but rather concerns about political stability and governance structures to protect investments. Many countries richly endowed with natural resources, such as energy, metals, or agricultural crops, have become targeted by other countries for inward infrastructure investments in return for access to resources. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The problem is that these infrastructure investments can be blinkered and "resource-centric", and might not serve the country as a whole. But this problem must rest largely with the producer nation's government, which is ultimately responsible for creating linkages to a wider plan for development</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Examples of a narrower view of infrastructure development can be found from South America to Africa, where villages without running water and electricity sit next to busy highways ferrying goods to and from state-of-the-art port facilities. The risk of local unrest is high, but the greater risk is the depleted potential for long-term development and greater economic well-being for the wider population.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> To address infrastructure needs with a vision for a sustainable, resource efficient approach to projects is one of the challenges of both emerging market and developed world countries. Given the financial, political, environmental and even societal risks involved in infrastructure projects, there is a need to establish best practices, to share know-how and enabling technologies, and to find innovative ways to finance development while managing risks. International finance and development institutions have long been working on multistakeholder approaches, but these efforts will have to be stepped up. One area under discussion as part of the proposals coming from the Forum's Global Agenda Councils is that new models might be found to encourage large institutional investors, who have a longer term investment horizon, such as pension funds or sovereign wealth funds, to invest in infrastructure projects. As an area linked to so many risks and one that can ultimately amplify or dampen the impact of a range of other global risks, the time has come to step up the dialogue and thinking to achieve the necessary level of infrastructure investment in an economically and environmentally sustainable manner.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Agriculture: the infrastructure necessary for food security and sustainable growth</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Despite an increasingly urban global population, 75% of the world's poor continue to live in rural areas. As this report discussed in 2007, </span>food security is driven by a number of factors but<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> all are highly interlinked and </span>infrastructure is at the nexus<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of many of these factors</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. A still growing global population that is moving to a more protein intensive diet engenders not only greater overall demand for food but also greater demand for the water and energy needed to produce and transport that food. Few countries have the mechanisms in place to manage their future needs in terms of infrastructure and health planning based on available water for the population. For example, a 2009 report on water by the Forum6, estimated that by 2030 there will be a 40% shortfall between the amount of water India requires to meet its own energy and food production needs and the water available to do so.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (6 "The Bubble Is Close to Bursting", World Economic Forum 2009 www.weforum.org/en/initiatives/water/).</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">If agricultural productivity is to have any chance of increasing to meet the demands of 9 billion people by 2050, a second Green Revolution will have to happen</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Indeed, in Africa the first green revolution is still to take place. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">But there are also huge gains to be made from investment in better storage and transportation systems, thus minimizing waste and maximizing the amount of food reaching consumers</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>The impact of investment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in these facilities </span>could make //a significant contribution to reducing some of the volatility in food prices//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In addition to storage and transport, two other areas of infrastructure related to agriculture are key: water and energy. Agriculture accounts for 70% of the draws on water and as the effects of climate change mean that many areas become drier or more prone to extreme weather, improved water efficiency becomes vital. Improving water capture and irrigation would be an investment not only in productivity but in sustainable resource management. Investment in energy infrastructure is also a priority in rural areas in developing countries and must be part of a broader energy strategy. Farmers can be doubly hit by rising or volatile energy prices through input and transportation costs, but energy prices also link to the input side, with gas prices in particular affecting nitrate-based fertilizers.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Infrastructure investment alone will not be sufficient, but it will be a necessary accompaniment to investment in other areas and to improved market structures at the national and international level</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Challenges in this area are manifold. Some of the most productive land in the world is in areas of high instability and where major infrastructure projects require governments, international institutions and aid agencies to be innovative in the way risk is shared if they are to attract the substantial private investment necessary. Farms in much of the world are small, insufficiently productive and very labour intensive. As populations become more urban, there is a risk that labour and know-how are lost. As discussed in Global Risks 2009, and mentioned earlier in this chapter, </span>//there is a risk of "land grabbing"//,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as nations try to secure their food supply by i</span>nvesting directly into agricultural land in other countries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The infrastructure necessary to support sustainable agricultural production will not just pay off in terms of providing food to the more than 1 billion people who went hungry in 2009, but it will also help drive development in rural areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The UN</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Food and Agriculture Organization (</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">FAO</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">and World Food Programme predict that the </span>food crisis<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of 2008</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which led to riots and political turmoil in several countries, </span>will be repeated over the coming decades<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">What is clear is that </span>current levels of investment<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in agriculture </span>are not enough<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to drive the 70% increase in food production necessary to feed an expected population of 9.1 billion by 2050</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. During the last period of fiscal crises in the 1980s and 1990s, agriculture suffered from reduced investment that was never restored. Poor returns, uncertainty and distorting subsidies made investment less profitable. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In the face of rising unemployment and reduced consumer spending in the advanced economies and a record number of people suffering from hunger globally, </span>governments<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and international institutions now </span>need to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> think long term, and </span>create the mechanisms<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and environment t</span>o encourage investment in infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and leverage that investment for growth and stability</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====And, improving //__rural access__// //__stabilizes__// food prices – prevents //__low prices for producers__// AND //__high prices for consumers__//==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Armbruster & Coyle 4</span> (Walter J. Armbruster, President, Farm Foundation and Chairman, Pacific Food System Outlook, PECC; William T. Coyle, Senior Economist, Economic Research Service, USDA, Senior Coordinator, Pacific Food System Outlook, PECC; “Pacific Food System Outlook 2004-2005: The Role of Transportation in a Seamless Food System,” Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, November 2004)
Transportation infrastructure plays a pivotal role in the food system<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the PECC region. Food production</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is the most geographically dispersed industry in the region, while food demand is becoming</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> increasingly concentrated in urban areas.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The region’s </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">urban areas will grow by 590 million people</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the next 20 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">twice the growth rate of</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the total population</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Three-quarters of the growth will be in the less developed economies of the region.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Many </span>agricultural areas<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the developing parts of the region </span>are isolated<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and “taxed” </span>by inadequate<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transportation </span>access<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to markets, </span>resulting inlarge post-harvest losses<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span>depressed farm prices and high<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>consumer prices<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>To maintain<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> or reduce </span>urban food costs, policymakers must<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> either </span>invest in streamlining domestic supply<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>chains—including transportation infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> to connect urban centers with food-producing areas</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">—or </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">facilitate</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">food imports through market opening measures, or some combination of the two</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> strategies. As the examples</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in this report demonstrate, major efforts are underway to expand and enhance transportation infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> in the region.</span>

====Otherwise, widespread shortages guarantee multiple scenarios for escalation to war within the year – boosting U.S. agriculture exports is key to human survival==== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Klare 12</span> (Michael Klare is a professor of peace and world security studies at Hampshire College, “The Hunger Wars in Our Future,” Huffington Post, 8-7-2012, http://www.huffingtonpost.com/michael-t-klare/the-hunger-wars-in-our-fu_b_1751968.html)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Great Drought of 2012 has yet to come to an end, but we already know that its consequences will be severe. With more than one-half of America’s counties designated as drought disaster areas, the 2012 harvest of corn, soybeans, and other food staples is guaranteed to fall far short of predictions. This, in turn, will boost food prices domestically and abroad, causing increased misery for farmers and low-income Americans and far greater hardship for poor people in countries that rely on imported U.S. grains.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> This, however, is just the beginning of the likely consequences: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if history is any guide, rising food prices</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of this sort </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">will also lead to widespread social unrest and violent conflict</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Food -- </span>affordable food -- is essential to human survival<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and well-being. Take that away, and people become anxious, desperate, and angry. In the United States, food represents only about 13 percent of the average household budget, a relatively small share, so a boost in food prices in 2013 will probably not prove overly taxing for most middle- and upper-income families. It could, however, produce considerable hardship for poor and unemployed Americans with limited resources. “You are talking about a real bite out of family budgets,” commented Ernie Gross, an agricultural economist at Omaha’s Creighton University. This could add to the discontent already evident in depressed and high-unemployment areas, perhaps prompting an intensified backlash against incumbent politicians and other forms of dissent and unrest.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is in the international arena, however, that the Great Drought is likely to have its most devastating effects. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Because so </span>many nations depend on grain importsfrom the U.S<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. to supplement their own harvests, and because </span>intense drought and floods are damaging crops elsewhere<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as well, food supplies are expected to shrink and prices to rise across the planet. “What happens to the </span>U.S. supply has immense impact<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> around the world,” says Robert Thompson, a food expert at the Chicago Council on Global Affairs</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As the crops most affected by the drought, corn and soybeans, disappear from world markets, he noted, </span>the price of all grains<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, including wheat, </span>is likely to soar,<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> causing immense hardship to those who already have trouble affording enough food to feed their families</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Hunger Games, 2007-2011</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> What happens next is, of course, impossible to predict, but </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">if the recent past is any guide, it could turn ugly</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. In 2007-2008, when rice, corn, and wheat experienced prices hikes of 100 percent or more, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">sharply </span>higher prices<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> -- especially for bread -- </span>sparked “food riots<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">” </span>in more than two dozen countries<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, including Bangladesh, Cameroon, Egypt, Haiti, Indonesia, Senegal, and Yemen. In Haiti, the rioting became so violent and public confidence in the government’s ability to address the problem dropped so precipitously that the Haitian Senate voted to oust the country’s prime minister, Jacques-Édouard Alexis. In other countries, angry protestors clashed with army and police forces, leaving scores dead.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Those price increases of 2007-2008 were largely attributed to the soaring cost of oil, which made food production more expensive. (Oil’s use is widespread in farming operations, irrigation, food delivery, and pesticide manufacture.) At the same time, increasing amounts of cropland worldwide were being diverted from food crops to the cultivation of plants used in making biofuels.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The next price spike in 2010-11 was, however, closely associated with climate change. An intense drought gripped much of eastern Russia during the summer of 2010, reducing the wheat harvest in that breadbasket region by one-fifth and prompting Moscow to ban all wheat exports. Drought also hurt China’s grain harvest, while intense flooding destroyed much of Australia’s wheat crop. Together with other extreme-weather-related effects, these disasters sent wheat prices soaring by more than 50 percent and the price of most food staples by 32 percent.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Once again, a surge in food prices resulted in widespread social unrest, this time concentrated in North Africa and the Middle East. The earliest protests arose over the cost of staples in Algeria and then Tunisia, where -- no coincidence -- the precipitating event was a young food vendor, Mohamed Bouazizi, setting himself on fire to protest government harassment. Anger over rising food and fuel prices combined with long-simmering resentments about government repression and corruption sparked what became known as the Arab Spring. The rising cost of basic staples, especially a loaf of bread, was also a cause of unrest in Egypt, Jordan, and Sudan. Other factors, notably anger at entrenched autocratic regimes, may have proved more powerful in those places, but as the author of Tropic of Chaos, Christian Parenti, wrote, “The initial trouble was traceable, at least in part, to the price of that loaf of bread.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> As for the current drought, </span>analysts are<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> already </span>warning of instability in Africa<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, where corn is a major staple, </span>and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of increased popular unrest in </span>China<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, where food prices are expected to rise at a time of growing hardship</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for that country’s vast pool of low-income, migratory workers and poor peasants. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Higher food prices in the U.S. and China could also lead to reduced consumer spending on other goods, further contributing to the slowdown in the global economy and producing yet more worldwide misery, with unpredictable social consequences</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The Hunger Games, 2012-??</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> If this was just one bad harvest, occurring in only one country, the world would undoubtedly absorb the ensuing hardship and expect to bounce back in the years to come. Unfortunately, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">it’s becoming evident that the Great Drought of 2012 is not a one-off event in a single heartland nation, but rather an inevitable consequence of global warming which is only going to intensify. As a result, we can expect not just more bad years of extreme heat, but worse years, hotter and more often, and not just in the U</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">S</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">but globally for the indefinite future</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Until recently, most scientists were reluctant to blame particular storms or droughts on global warming. Now, however, a growing number of scientists believe that such links can be demonstrated in certain cases. In one recent study focused on extreme weather events in 2011, for instance, climate specialists at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and Great Britain’s National Weather Service concluded that human-induced climate change has made intense heat waves of the kind experienced in Texas in 2011 more likely than ever before. Published in the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, it reported that global warming had ensured that the incidence of that Texas heat wave was 20 times more likely than it would have been in 1960; similarly, abnormally warm temperatures like those experienced in Britain last November were said to be 62 times as likely because of global warming.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> It is still too early to apply the methodology used by these scientists to calculating the effect of global warming on the heat waves of 2012, which are proving to be far more severe, but we can assume the level of correlation will be high. And what can we expect in the future, as the warming gains momentum?</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> When we think about climate change (if we think about it at all), we envision rising temperatures, prolonged droughts, freakish storms, hellish wildfires, and rising sea levels. Among other things, this will result in damaged infrastructure and diminished food supplies. These are, of course, manifestations of warming in the physical world, not the social world we all inhabit and rely on for so many aspects of our daily well-being and survival. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The purely physical effects of climate change will, no doubt, prove catastrophic. But the social effects including, somewhere down the line, food riots, mass starvation, state collapse, mass migrations, and </span>conflicts<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of every sort, up to and </span>including full-scale war, could prove <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">even</span> more<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> disruptive and </span>deadly<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In her immensely successful young-adult novel The Hunger Games (and the movie that followed), Suzanne Collins riveted millions with a portrait of a dystopian, resource-scarce, post-apocalyptic future where once-rebellious “districts” in an impoverished North America must supply two teenagers each year for a series of televised gladiatorial games that end in death for all but one of the youthful contestants. These “hunger games” are intended as recompense for the damage inflicted on the victorious capitol of Panem by the rebellious districts during an insurrection. Without specifically mentioning global warming, Collins makes it clear that climate change was significantly responsible for the hunger that shadows the North American continent in this future era. Hence, as the gladiatorial contestants are about to be selected, the mayor of District 12’s principal city describes “the disasters, the droughts, the storms, the fires, the encroaching seas that swallowed up so much of the land [and] the brutal war for what little sustenance remained.”</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> In this, Collins was prescient, even if her specific vision of the violence on which such a world might be organized is fantasy. While we may never see her version of those hunger games, do not doubt that some version of them will come into existence -- that, in fact, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hunger wars of many sorts will fill our future. These could include any combination or permutation of the deadly riots that led to the</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 2008 </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">collapse of Haiti’s government</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the pitched battles between massed protesters and security forces that engulfed</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> parts of Cairo as </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Arab Spring</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> developed, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the ethnic struggles over disputed croplands and water sources that have made Darfur a recurring headline</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of horror in our world, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">or the inequitable distribution of agricultural land that continues to fuel the insurgency</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> of the Maoist-inspired Naxalites </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of India</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Combine such conflicts with another likelihood: that persistent drought and hunger will force millions of people to abandon their traditional lands and flee to</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the squalor of shantytowns and expanding slums surrounding </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">large cities, sparking hostility from those already living there</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. One such eruption, with grisly results, occurred in Johannesburg’s shantytowns in 2008 when desperately poor and hungry migrants from Malawi and Zimbabwe were set upon, beaten, and in some cases burned to death by poor South Africans. One terrified Zimbabwean, cowering in a police station from the raging mobs, said she fled her country because “there is no work and no food.” </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">And count on</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> something else: </span>millions <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more in the coming decades, pressed by disasters ranging from drought and flood to rising sea levels, </span>will<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> try to </span>migrate <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">to other countries, </span>provoking<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> even </span>greater hostility<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. And that hardly begins to exhaust the possibilities that lie in our hunger-games future.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> At this point, the focus is understandably on the immediate consequences of the still ongoing Great Drought: dying crops, shrunken harvests, and rising food prices. But keep an eye out for </span>the<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> social and political </span>effects<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> undoubtedly won’t </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">begin to </span>show up<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> here or globally until </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">later this year or </span>2013<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Better than any academic study, these will offer us a hint of what we can expect in the coming decades from a hunger-games world of rising temperatures, persistent droughts, recurring food shortages, and billions of famished, desperate people.</span>