[[toc]]
=Case Negatives= 
==<span class="Underline">**Alaska Ports**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Alaska CP**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC CP</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Text: The Alaskan Department of Transportation should fund the development and construction of its deep-water ports.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Alaskan Department of Transportation solves best.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Northern Economics 11** – Largest professional economics consulting firm in Alaska; report prepared for Army Corps of Engineers and Alaska Department of Transportation (“Alaska Regional Ports: Planning for Alaska’s Regional Ports and Harbors: Final Report” January 2011; < http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/regionalports_finalreport0111.pdf>)//AB</span>
<span class="Underline">Port and harbor projects can be financed…well as port or inner harbor design work.</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC AT: Alaska Doesn't Have Money</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Lolz they do and they can also deficit spend**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Forgey, 11** (Pat, “Budget: Alaska can’t borrow, but it sure can save,” Morris News Service-Alaska, Juneau Empire, 8/18/11, http://peninsulaclarion.com/news/2011-08-18/budget-alaska-can%E2%80%99t-borrow-but-it-sure-can-save)</span>
<span class="Underline">While some other states — actually, most other states — are…but Alaska has been able to do that with savings.</span>

===Arctic War Adv.=== 
====1NC Arctic War==== 
<span class="Underline">**Here is a litany of alt causes in their 1ac evidence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Rourke 6/15** – Specialist in Naval Affairs (Ronald, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, 6/15/12; <http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf>)AB</span>
<span class="Underline">As global warming opens the Arctic Ocean to…the issue, and advocate for capabilities.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Specifically in the context of an Arctic oil rush, Arctic nations will cooperate**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DoD 11** – US Department of Defense (“Report to Congress on Arctic Operations and the Northwest Passage” May 2011; < http://www.defense.gov/pubs/pdfs/Tab_A_Arctic_Report_Public.pdf>)//AB//</span>
<span class="Underline">The extent, impact, and rate of climate change…of relevant bilateral and multilateral relationships. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Port not key for defense and the status quo solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**DOD 11**- (“report to congress on arctic operations and the northwest passage”, May 11, http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/dodreport_arcticops.pdf)</span>MSO
<span class="Underline">Since 2007, the U.S. Coast Guard has deployed cutters,…regional plans as the security environment evolves. </span>

===Oil Spills Adv.=== 
====1NC Oil Spills==== 
<span class="Underline">**Logistical challenges prevent an increase in human activity there was a spill in 2010 – your 1ac author**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Rourke 6/15** – Specialist in Naval Affairs (Ronald, “Changes in the Arctic: Background and Issues for Congress”, 6/15/12; <http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41153.pdf>)AB</span>
<span class="Underline">Climate change impacts in the Arctic, particularly…well blowout in Mexican Gulf Coast waters in 1979.89</span>

<span class="Underline">**Their 1ac evidence concedes that the status quo solves and there are alternative causes**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conathan et. al. 12** – writers for the Center of American Progress, an independent nonpartisan educational institute dedicated to critique and analysis of policy. Individual cites are below. “Putting a Freeze on Arctic Ocean Drilling America’s Inability to Respond to an Oil Spill in the Arctic,” February 2012, americanprogress.org/issues/2012</span>
<span class="Underline">The decision to move forward with drilling in some…any large-scale emergency response effort</span>

<span class="Underline">**They don’t solve data shortages, which is an alt cause to the aff – their 1ac evidence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**NOAA 8** – Federal Scientific Agency within US Department of Commerce (National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, “Internal Strategy Paper: Transportation; A Strategy for the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration” July 2008; < http://www.ppi.noaa.gov/wp-content/uploads/2011/05/Transportation.pdf>)//AB</span>
<span class="Underline">OAA is a leader in providing quality MTS products…and shoreline information used in the adjudication.</span>
===<span class="Underline">Solvency</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Solvency</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**No solvency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**DOD 11**- (“report to congress on arctic operations and the northwest passage”, May 11, http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/dodreport_arcticops.pdf)//MSO//</span>
<span class="Underline">Because of the range and severity of Arctic…infrastructure located on eroding shorelines.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Plan will require constant dredging.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Northern Economics 11** – Largest professional economics consulting firm in Alaska; report prepared for Army Corps of Engineers and Alaska Department of Transportation (“Alaska Regional Ports: Planning for Alaska’s Regional Ports and Harbors: Final Report” January 2011; < http://www.dot.state.ak.us/stwddes/desports/assets/pdf/regionalports_finalreport0111.pdf>)</span>AB
Dredging is needed on a regular basis to maintain…the future, the need for dredging will increase.

==<span class="Underline">**Bingham Give Water to Immigrants**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Case**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Case</span>==== 
**__Straight from the treasure chest of__ __Bobby Zhan__ --- Water development is a hegemonic concept manipulated to serve the interests of powerful social actors and dominant interest groups. Regard all of their claims with suspicion – they are mindlessly repeating the soundbytes they’ve been programed to proliferate.** 
**Trottier**, Univ. Oxford,UNESCO’s intl. Hydrological Programme, World Water Assessment Programme in **‘4**
[Julie, “Water Wars: The Rise of a Hegemonic Concept,” http://webworld.unesco.org/Water/wwap/pccp/cd/pdf/history_future_shared_water_resources/water_wars_hegemonic_concept.pdf]
The concept of hegemony was developed by Gramsci…of water development, as it is understood today.

**Util is necessary even if ethics are important**
**CUMMISKY 1996** (David Cummisky, professor of philosophy at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, pg. 145)
We must not obscure the issue by characterizing…one may have to sacrifice some to save many.

**Fear of extinction is categorically different than a fear of our own death – it generates a collective identity which solves and turns the aff** 
**Macy, 2K** (Joanna Macy, adjunct professor at the California Institute of Integral Studies, 2000, Environmental Discourse and Practice: A Reader, p. 243)
The move to a wider ecological sense of self…immune to what we do to other beings.

**The plan is net worse for an obligation to the Other ---**

**Victimization turn --- framing the poverty-stricken Other as an encounter with unpredictability and difference is an exercise of sovereignty that strips their lives of meaning and justifies violence**
**BADIOU 1993** (Alain Badiou, philosophy teacher at the Ecole Normale Superieure and the College International de Philosophie in Paris, “Ethics: An Essay on the Understanding of Evil,” 1993, Verso, pp. 11-13)
1. In the first place, because the status of victim…its own inanity - in short, of its subhumanity.

**Exceptionality turn --- infinite obligation to the affixed Other only leads to endless warfare** 
**MCGOWAN 2009** (Todd McGowan, Associate Professor, film theory, University of Vermont, PhD, Ohio State University, studies the intersection of Hegel, psychoanalysis, and existentialism and cinema, “The Exceptional Darkness of The Dark Knight,” Jump Cut, No. 51, Spring 2009, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/jc51.2009/darkKnightKant/text.html)
Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben sees the great…problem that it is created to fight against.

**Guilt turn --- the aff’s overfocus on compassion only transfers suffering to the Self --- this makes truly effective ethics impossible** 
**BRUCKNER 1986** (Pascal Bruckner, Associate professor, Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris, “The Tears of the White Man,” p.66-68)
That is the wellspring of this religion of…patronage of a weeping Jesus Christ of Naples.

====2NC Victimization Turn==== 
**This turn is particularly true in the context of their call for “infinite obligation” to the Other --- the 1AC isn’t ethical --- it positions asymmetrical configurations for further violence and are oversimplified which turns solvency**
**DESIREE 2007** (Desiree, citing David Wood, Centennial Professor of Philosophy, and Joe B. Wyatt Distinguished University Professor, at Vanderbilt University, “David Wood, ‘Some Questions for my Levinasian Friends,’” April 15, 2007, http://hacu259.wordpress.com/2007/04/15/summary-david-wood-some-questions-for-my-levinasian-friends/)
Wood advances the need to move away from…by the complexity of self-other relations.

====2NC Guilt Turn==== 
**This turns our ability to be sincerely compassionate and also engenders a self-hatred that destroys our own lives and culminates in extinction**
**BRUCKNER 1986** (Pascal Bruckner, Associate professor, Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris, “The Tears of the White Man,” p.66-68)
The foregoing teaches us this: that hatred of…that envisions the end of the world.

===2NC AT: Conditional Ethics=== 
**Forcing debaters to defend an unconditional position isn’t ethical but rather enforces an unethical demand destroying our freedom to choose**
**ROSENBERG 1995** (Marshall Rosenberg, Ph.D., “Compassionate Communication,” Miracles Magazine, August 1995, http://www.naturalchild.com/marshall_rosenberg/compassionate_communication.html)
At an early age, most of us were taught to…do not take responsibility for their actions.

==<span class="Underline">**CCS**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Consumption K**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC K</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The affirmative’s production-oriented approach to environmental degradation is unethical and legitimizes infinite consumption – turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lack 11** – MA in Environmental Politics, MSc in Hydroecology, 25 years of professional work experience, as a geologist and hydrogeologist, in both public and private sectors, Fellow of the Geological Society Martin, “What’s wrong with Clean Coal?,” http://lackofenvironment.wordpress.com/category/carbon-capture-and-storage/ </span>
<span class="Underline">The concept of Clean Coal is almost certainly an…has said, a gross case of intergenerational injustice.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Environment DA's**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Dead Zones</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Co2 pipelines lead to dead zones**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Winter 7** Human Resources Manager at Astral Media, Canada's largest radio broadcasting station, EcoGeek (Jozef Winter, November 27, 2007, “Carbon Sequestration Just a Pipe Dream?” http://www.ecogeek.org/preventing-pollution/1100)//</span>
<span class="Underline">Not only that, these pipes have to…oxygen. It's all very exciting stuff.</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Drinking Water</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Contaminates drinking water**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Neural Energy 12**</span>
<span class="Underline">“Carbon Transport & Sequestration,” http://www.neuralenergy.info/2011/09/carbon-sequestration.html</span>
<span class="Underline">Drinking Water Contamination - If CO2 gets…maximum contaminant levels set by the EPA.</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Energy</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**CCS wastes energy and increases resource consumption**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rochon et al 08** Peer Reviewed, Greenpeace International: Greenpeace is an independent global campaigning organisation that acts to change attitudes and behaviour, to protect and conserve the environment and to promote peace, Authors include: Dr Erika Bjureby, Dr Paul Johnston, Robin Oakley, Dr David Santillo, Nina Schulz, Dr Gabriela von Goerne (Emily, May 2008, “False Hope: Why carbon capture and storage won’t save the climate,” http://www.probeinternational.org/False%20Hope%20--%20Why%20carbon%20capture%20and%20storage%20won%92t%20save%20the%20climate.pdf)//</span>
<span class="Underline">Capturing and storing carbon uses lots of…increase resource consumption by one third.19</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Mining</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**CCS leads to new mining – tanks the environment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tady 7** - national political reporter</span>
<span class="Underline">Megan, “Carbon Capture: Miracle Cure for Global Warming, or Deadly Liability?,” Alternet, http://www.alternet.org/environment/68490/?page=4</span>
<span class="Underline">Even if CCS becomes cheap, and scientists…will only spur more coal mining, not curb it.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Warming Adv.**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Warming</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Status quo solves warming—plan prevents solutions**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rochon et al 08** Peer Reviewed, Greenpeace International: Greenpeace is an independent global campaigning organisation that acts to change attitudes and behaviour, to protect and conserve the environment and to promote peace, Authors include: Dr Erika Bjureby, Dr Paul Johnston, Robin Oakley, Dr David Santillo, Nina Schulz, Dr Gabriela von Goerne (Emily, May 2008, “False Hope: Why carbon capture and storage won’t save the climate,” http://www.probeinternational.org/False%20Hope%20--%20Why%20carbon%20capture%20and%20storage%20won%92t%20save%20the%20climate.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The world already has the solutions to…to cut emissions and save the climate.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Natural gas is better than coal**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Natural Gas.org 04** (“Natural Gas and the Environment,” http://www.naturalgas.org/environment/naturalgas.asp) </span> JMP
<span class="Underline">Natural gas is the cleanest of the…effects of natural gas production.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Plan doesn’t solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**KFTC 08** an informal partnership encouraging resource management professionals from all disciplines and segments (forest industries, public agencies, private forestry consultants, and forest landowner organizations, an informal partnership encouraging resource management professionals from all disciplines and segments (forest industries, public agencies, private forestry consultants, and forest landowner organizations, Promotes actions that sustain forests, watersheds, and wildlife habitat through the power of private stewardship, (Kentucky Tree Farm Committee, June 19, 2008, “THE REALITY OF THE “CLEAN COAL” CAMPAIGN,” http://www.kftc.org/publications/nancys-research/The%20Reality%20of%20the%20Clean%20Coal%20Campaign.pdf)//</span>
<span class="Underline">The coal industry has spent $40 million on a…in more detail in a section below.</span>


==<span class="Underline">**Consumerism (Stuyvesant)**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Phantasy Advantage**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Phantasy</span>==== 
**Utility maximizes value to life and precludes zeroing anyone out**
**Dworkin 77** (Ronald, Professor of Law and Philosophy – New York University, Taking Rights Seriously, p. 274-275)
Utilitarian arguments of policy, however, would…less worthy of respect, than any other.

**Exploring causal chains to make choices is good – uncertainty isn’t unknowability and imperfect knowledge can be good**
**Han 10** (Dong-ho Han, Ph.D. Candidate in Political Science at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, January 26, 2010, “Scenario Construction and Implications for IR Research: Connecting Theory to a Real World of Policy Making,” online: http://www.allacademic.com/one/isa/isa10/index.phpcmd=Download+Document&key=unpublished_manuscript&file_in dex=1&pop_up=true&no_click_key=true&attachment_style=attachment&PHPSESSID=3e890fb5925
7a0ca9bad2e2327d8a24f)
How do we assess future possibilities with existing…different manifestations of those driving forces.”21

**Psychoanalysis is tautological and epistemologically bankrupt**
**Gordon**, psychotherapist living and working in London, **2K1** (Paul, Psychoanalysis and Racism: The politics of defeat Race & Class v. 42, n. 4)
The problem with the application of psychoanalysis to…into service as a story about `racial' invasion.

**There’s no lash-out and no atrocities --- they can’t break it down anyways**
**Blight 86** (James, Center for Science and International Affairs, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, Political Psychology, Vol. 7, No. 4, International Society of Political Psychology, JSTOR//HH)
Several recent attempts are surveyed in which psychologists…influence, despite all their good intentions.

===Utility Minimization Advantage=== 
====1NC Utility Minimization==== 
**Consumerism and utility maximizing transportation is good --- it leads to coalition building and civic responsibility**
**AMIN 2006** (Ash Amin, Professor of Geography, Director Ejecutivo del Institute of Advanced Study, Durham University, “Collective Culture and Urban Public Space,” Public Space, Woodrow Wilson International the Center for Scholars, 2006, http://www.publicspace.org/es/texto-biblioteca/eng/b003-collective-culture-and-urban-public-space)
This is not to deny public space a role in…cultures of sociability and civic sensibility.

**Turn: the plan causes structural violence--focus on individual consumption leads to socially regressive solutions and turns their impacts**
**Martens and Spaargaren 5** - * Researcher at the Environmental Policy Group at Wageningen University, **Professor of Environmental Policy @ Wageningen
Martens, S. & Spaargaren, G. 2005. The politics of sustainable consumption: the case of the Netherlands. Sustainability: Science, Practice, & Policy 1(1):29-42. Proquest
We begin with a discussion of the possible…and environmentally ineffectual outcomes will be the result.

**They destroy the environment and lead to the worst forms of utility --- only status quo consumption patterns lead to sustainable resource use**
**Cudd, 11** (Ann E., Professor of Philosophy, Associate Dean for Humanities, University of Kansas, “Capitalism, For and Against - A Feminist Debate,” Cambridge University Press, Section 3, Tashma)
I agree with Professor Holmstrom that we…therefore more expensive, privately owned good.

**Even if death is inevitable, we should give people the choice --- their tacit acceptance of inevitable death leads to extinction and destroys Compassion for the Other --- turns the case**
**Macy 2K** – Joanna Macy, adjunct professor at the California Institute of Integral Studies, 2000, Environmental Discourse and Practice: A Reader, p. 243
The move to a wider ecological sense of self…immune to what we do to other beings.

**Our death drive and fear of death is inevitable --- their attempt to move away cause psychological torture on the subject**
**Pyszczynski et al 6** – Tom, Prof. Psych. – U. Colorado, Sheldon Solomon, Prof. Psych. – Skidmore College, Jeff Greenberg, Prof. Psych. – U. Arizona, and Molly Maxfield, U. Colorado, Psychological Inquiry, “On the Unique Psychological Import of the Human Awareness of Mortality: Theme and Variations” 17:4, Ebsco
Kirkpatrick and Navarette’s (this issue) first specific…fear reactions in response to such threats?

**Their notion of the death drive cedes responsibility – this makes mass violence inevitable** 
**Lear, 2000** Philosophy Professor, U of Chicago, Winner of the 2001 Gradiva Award for the Best Book in Psychoanalysis and Philosophy, Sponsored by the World Organization and the Public Education Corporation of the National Association for the Advancement of Psychoanalysis (Jonathan, “Happiness, Death, and the Remainder of Life”, p. 131-132, 2000)
By 1920 Freud is ready to break up what…turn out to be significant empirical possibilities.

====2NC Extinction First==== 
**Extinction actually is the end of all human consciousness---no transcendence or life after death---** 
**Stenger 92** – Victor J. Stenger, Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, University of Colorado, 1992, “The Myth of Quantum Consciousness,” online: http://www.colorado.edu/philosophy/vstenger/Quantum/QuantumConsciousness.pdf
Quantum mechanics is called on further to…of quantum mechanics that operate today.

**Turn – Our politics of preventing extinction instantiates an ethics of care for the world – even if we accept there are no values, we should still love the world and attempt to prevent extinction.**
**Wapner '3** (Director -- Global Environmental Policy Program @ American, Winter, Dissent)
All attempts to listen to nature are social…compromise their fundamental moral commitment.

**Preventing death is the first ethical priority – it’s the only impact you can’t recover from.** 
Zygmunt **Bauman**, University of Leeds Professor Emeritus of Sociology, **1995**, Life In Fragments: Essays In Postmodern Morality, p. 66-71
The being for is like living towards the future: a…sometimes even of being good, in the present.

====2NC AT: Epistemology==== 
**Their epistemology and their choice of scholarship pollutes their framing and utility confrontation --- it endorses the most barbaric acts in human history**
**Hari 07** (Johann Hari, award-winning journalist and playwright, Columnist for the Independent, 2007 “Pseud’s corner,” The New Statesman, April 30th, Available Online at http://www.newstatesman.com/film/2007/04/slavoj-zizek-intellectual, Accessed 01-20-2009)
To the academic world’s small population of…nothing but a theory-clown with bloody tears.

**A focus on epistemology guts political solutions**
**Jarvis, 2k** (Prof Philosophy @ U South Carolina (Darryl, Studies in International Relations, “International Relations and the Challenge of Postmodernism”, pg. 2)
While Hoffmann might well be correct, these…itself become "an appropriate form of scholarship."5

====2NC Psychoanalysis Bad==== 
**Psychoanalytic critique causes passivity and political failure**
**Gordon 1** (Paul, London Psychotherapist, Race & Class, 42(4), p. 30-31)
The postmodernists' problem is that they cannot…to interpret it, need to look elsewhere.

**Aff fails – not falsifiable** 
**Robinson, 4** (Andrew, Early Career Fellow in the School of Politics – University of Nottingham, “The Politics of Lack”, British Journal of Politics and International Relations, 6)
As should by now be clear, the central claims of…Butler, Laclau and Zizek 2000, 1999, original emphasis).

**Psychoanalysis can’t create change**
**Hutchens, 4** (Assistant Professor at James Madison University “The Senselessness of a Curable World: Jean-Luc Nancy on Freudian Massenpsychologie,” theory @ Buffalo 9, http://wings.buffalo.edu/theory/archive/archive.html, 115-116)
Yet Nancy does have a viable objection…perhaps no such sickness of that kind at all.

==<span class="Underline">**Electric Vehicles**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Grid Adv.**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Grid</span>==== 
**EVs will not lead to smart grids – costs are out of control**
**Motavalli, 7/8** – staff writer for Bloomberg, (Bloomberg News, Lexis)
A January 2010 report for Mayor Michael Bloomberg’s PlaNYC…a capital cost with benefits in the future.

===Oil Adv.=== 
====1NC Oil==== 
**EVs do nothing to resolve oil dependence – your 1AC author**
**MIT Energy Initiative Symposium, ’10** (April 8, “Electrification of the Transportation System,” , p. 15)
Finding: EVs can help address security, climate…build-out of vehicle charging infrastructures.

===Solvency=== 
====1NC Solvency==== 
**Status quo solves – the Recovery Act financed 10,000 new charging sites**
**Kelly, ’10** (GPO.gov, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-111shrg56643/pdf/CHRG-111shrg56643.pdf )
In addition to building U.S. manufacturing capacity, Recovery…with accidents involving EVs and PHEVs.

==<span class="Underline">**HSR**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Economy Adv.**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Economy</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**There’s no major economic boom – job estimates assume freight rail and don’t account for increased taxpayer subsidies**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Staley 9** – (Sam Director of Urban Growth and Land Use Policy for Reason Foundation, “Why High-Speed Rail Fails as a Jobs Program,” August 18 ,http://reason.com/archives/2009/08/18/why-high-speed-rail-fails-as-a)</span>
<span class="Underline">Of course, rail proponents argue that…solution to the country's transportation challenges.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No short-term stimulus effect –HSR will take decades to complete**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stegemeier 10** – Retired Chairman and CEO of Unocal (Richard, “Richard Stegemeier: High-speed rail economics bleak,” Feb 15, http://www.ocregister.com/articles/speed-234453-high-rail.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">High-speed rail is a wonderful concept because it…and disadvantages everyone in-between.</span>

<span class="Underline">**HSR does not have a perceptible impact on road traffic- Japan proves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**O’Toole 9** (senior fellow at the Cato Institute “High-speed rail is expensive and inefficient” http://www.illinoispolicy.org/news/article.asp?ArticleSource=1256 7/30/09) CANOVA</span>
<span class="Underline">Moderate-speed trains whose average speeds…high-speed rail less than 400 miles a year.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Their authors are biased---view their aff through a lens of uncertainty**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Button** 3–16–**12,** Professor – George Mason University School of Public Policy</span>
<span class="Underline">[Kenneth Button, Is there any economic justification for high-speed railways in the United States?, 16 March 2012. Journal of Transport Geography, Volume 22, May 2012, Pages 300–302]</span>
<span class="Underline">Full economic analysis of the potential HSR in the…overruns averaging nearly 45%; 40.8% for US projects.10</span>

<span class="Underline">**No Solvency and turn – California proves- implementation and lack of use hurts jobs** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Brownfield**, Assistant Director of Strategic Communications at The Heritage Foundation, 5/12/**2011**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Mike, Obama’s High-Speed Spending on Slow-Speed Rail, 5/12/2011, http://blog.heritage.org/2011/05/12/obamas-high-speed-spending-on-slow-speed-rail/, 6/28/2012) AGI</span>
<span class="Underline">{In reality, no high-speed trains—those that…and an independent estimate pegs it at $81.4 billion.}</span>

====2NC AT: Creates Jobs==== 
<span class="Underline">**Even if they win that they create jobs they are largely short term and won’t help the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Tampa Bay Times 11** (newspaper based in tampabay “ Says the high-speed rail project provides "short-term jobs."” http://www.politifact.com/florida/statements/2011/mar/03/rick-scott/gov-rick-scott-says-high-speed-rail-jobs-wont-last/) </span>
<span class="Underline">Florida Gov. Rick Scott made time during his two-day…truly permanent. We rate Scott's claim Mostly True. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**Solvency**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Derails</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**HSR is unstable and will derail**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gilligan 12** (Andrew, Staffwritter for The Telegraph. 2/19/12. "High speed rail link 'at risk of derailment' because of 225mph trains." www.telegraph.co.uk/news/uknews/road-and-rail-transport/9090727/High-speed-rail-link-at-risk-of-derailment-because-of-225mph-trains.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Professor Peter Woodward, one of the world's leading…velocity it would derail at high speed," he warned.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Icebreakers**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Alaska CP**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC CP</span>==== 
**Text: The State of Alaska should fund the construction of two new polar icebreakers. The State of Alaska should ensure that the POLAR SEA remains mission capable and that the POLAR STAR remains available for reactivation.**

**Counterplan solves the entirety of the case — avoids politics**
**DeMarban, 12** — correspondent for Alaska Dispatch (Alex, “Should Alaska take the lead in financing new icebreakers?”, Alaska Dispatch, 4/11/2012, http://www.alaskadispatch.com/article/should-alaska-take-lead-financing-new-icebreakers)
Gov. Sean Parnell says the state might be…Guard and National Science Foundation, wrote Young.

====2NC AT: Perm Do CP==== 
**Severance -- "Transportation investment" requires federal funding**
**Warner, 11** – US Senator who introduced this bill into the Senate (introduced by Mark Warner and Mark Kirk, “S. 1968: A bill to require the Secretary of Transportation to establish a pilot program to increase accountability with respect to outcomes of transportation investments, and for other purposes,” December 8, 2011, http://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/112/s1968/text)//RD
‘(5) TRANSPORTATION INVESTMENT- The term ‘transportation…5303 or 5304 of this title or section 134 or 135 of title 23.

====2NC AT: Theory==== 
**Funding is the key debate**
**O’Rourke, 12** — CRS Specialist in Naval Affairs (“Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress”, Congressional Research Service, 6/14/12, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/weapons/RL34391.pdf)
Leasing was also considered as a…resource level that best supports the nation’s interests.
====2NC AT: Alaska Budget==== 
**Alaska can deficit spend – savings**
**Forgey, 11** (Pat, “Budget: Alaska can’t borrow, but it sure can save,” Morris News Service-Alaska, Juneau Empire, 8/18/11, http://peninsulaclarion.com/news/2011-08-18/budget-alaska-can%E2%80%99t-borrow-but-it-sure-can-save)
While some other states — actually, most other…requirements, but Alaska has been able to do that with savings.

===Biodiversity DA=== 
====1NC DA==== 
**The plan decimates Arctic biodiversity**
**AMSA 09** (Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment, “Environmental Considerations and Impacts,” 2009, http://ine.uaf.edu/accap/documents/AMSAEnvironmentalConsiderationsImpacts.pdf)
All icebreaking operations, whether by independent…the ice edge as the channel eventually refreezes.

**Extinction**
**Diner, 94** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]
To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker…may be edging closer to the abyss.

===Cutters Trade-off DA=== 
====1NC DA==== 
**Coast Guard budget is zero sum --- fleet modernization and upgrades have barely survived but the plan forces a trade-off**
**Margetta 4/7/12** (Rob Margetta, “Coast Guard Considers How to Make Do With Less,” http://public.cq.com/docs/weeklyreport/weeklyreport-000004059909.html?ref=corg)
Adm. Robert J. Papp Jr., the Coast Guard’s…mission, which includes antiterrorism duties.

**The budget is at the tipping point now --- failure makes a host of impacts inevitable**
**Ivory 11/5/12** (Danielle Ivory, reporter and journalist, “Coast Guard Hailed for Sandy Rescue Threatened by Sequester Cuts,” Bloomberg, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-11-05/coast-guard-hailed-for-sandy-rescue-threatened-by-sequester-cuts.html)
Extended Duties The Coast Guard’s current High…real danger of doing less with less.”

**Specifically, nuclear and biological terrorism --- new cutters are key**
**Wolf 12** (Carol Wolf, “Coast Guard Snub by U.S. on Cutter Funds Seen as Mission Threat,” March 12, 2012, http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-03-12/coast-guard-snub-by-u-s-on-cutter-funds-seen-as-mission-threat.html)
Old Cutters The new National Security Cutter…against chemical, biological and radiological attacks.

**Extinction**
**Matheny, 7** – former associate at Oxford, MPJ from Hopkins (Jason, published in Risk Analysis 2007; 27(5): 1335-1344, “Reducing the Risk of Human Extinction,” http://jgmatheny.org/matheny_extinction_risk.htm)
Of current extinction risks, the most severe may be…beneﬁts do not seem to be worth the risks.

===<span class="Underline">Terrorism DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
**The plan’s icebreaking leads to nuclear terrorism**
**Yaffe 09** (Barbara, “Settling Arctic Fued” Canada.com, http://www.canada.com/Technology/story.html?id=1212728]
Legalities aside, the fact is the U.S. potentially…Arctic waterway, regulating and policing movement.

**Global nuclear war**
**Speice, 6** (Patrick, JD Candidate, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February, Lexis)
Terrorist groups could acquire a nuclear weapon by…and escalate to the use of nuclear weapons.

===<span class="Underline">Mapping Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Mapping</span>==== 
**No Arctic sovereignty disputes**
**Byers, 12** — Canada Research Chair in Global Politics and International Law at the University of British Columbia (Michael, “You can't replace real icebreakers”, The Globe and Mail, 9/6/12, http://m.theglobeandmail.com/commentary/you-cant-replace-real-icebreakers/article534351/?service=mobile)
Now, however, the Arctic countries are co-operating…likelihood of Arctic states going to war.”

**No solvency – the Arctic is too vast and weather prevents adequate research**
**Ridell-Dixon 09** (Professor of political science at Western University. April 2009. "NOT FOR THE FAINT-HEARTED:MAPPING CANADA’S ARCTICCONTINENTAL SHELF." Options Politiques. wwww.irpp.org/po/archive/apr09/riddell-dixon.pdf)
The area to be mapped is vast, stretching…severely limits the hours available to work.

===<span class="Underline">Science Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Science</span>==== 
**Status quo research solves**
**Stars and Stripes 12** (Seth Robson, “Antarctic research could change lives around the world”, 2/5/12, http://www.stripes.com/news/antarctic-research-could-change-lives-around-the-world-1.167784)
MCMURDO STATION, Antarctica — Climate change research…in coming centuries to human caused global warming.”

**Plan fails at research**
**Polar Research Board 11** (Future Science Opportunities in Antarctica and the Southern Ocean, p. 178)
Icebreakers that can navigate in multiyear ice…heavy icebreaker will be greater than $40,000.

**Empirically denied – McMurdo funding has been cut for years**
**O’Rourke 12** (Specialist in Naval Affairs, Congressional Research Service, Quote from July 2010 Coast Guard High Latitude Study, “Coast Guard Polar Icebreaker Modernization: Background and Issues for Congress,” http://digital.library.unt.edu/ark:/67531/metadc85474/)
Although Coast Guard polar icebreakers in the…for foreign contractor-operated polar icebreakers.

**They don’t solve research and scientific research fails**
**Ridell-Dixon 09** (Professor of political science at Western University. April 2009. "NOT FOR THE FAINT-HEARTED:MAPPING CANADA’S ARCTICCONTINENTAL SHELF." Options Politiques. wwww.irpp.org/po/archive/apr09/riddell-dixon.pdf)
One of the most serious challenges is finding sufficient…new compressor broke after only four days of use.

**Climate conditions are unpredictable and make solvency impossible**
**Ridell-Dixon 09** (Professor of political science at Western University. April 2009. "NOT FOR THE FAINT-HEARTED:MAPPING CANADA’S ARCTICCONTINENTAL SHELF." Options Politiques. wwww.irpp.org/po/archive/apr09/riddell-dixon.pdf)
Climatic conditions are a major determinant of…being transported to the 2009 base ice camp.

**Status quo solves science adv**
**Papp 11** (Admiral Robert J., ., U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral, Testimony before Congress, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112shrg72568/html/CHRG-112shrg72568.htm)
CGC HEALY is presently supporting Arctic research…in this complex and emerging region.

**Other countries fill in for science diplomacy**
**Papp 11** (Admiral Robert J., ., U.S. Coast Guard Commandant Admiral, Testimony before Congress, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CHRG-112shrg72568/html/CHRG-112shrg72568.htm)
Answer. The Coast Guard is maintaining crew proficiency…McMurdo break-in mission in January 2012.

==<span class="Underline">**Mayport**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Florida CP**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC CP</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Text: Florida should increase its investment in transportation infrastructure necessary to sustain a home port for a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier at the Mayport Naval Station.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**Florida can solve the entirety of the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wavy, 11** – division of the Virginia Government Accountability Office, (Wavy.com, news source Report March 30 2011 “GAO: Fla. could maintain nuclear carrier”, http://www.wavy.com/dpp/military/GAO-Fla-industry-can-maintain-nuclear-carrier)</span>
<span class="Underline">NORFOLK, Va. (AP) - Ship-repair firms in northeast Florida…if a carrier permanently sails to Mayport.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Navy Advantage**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Navy Adv.</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Attempting to perpetuate naval overstretch will only lead to collapse**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gouré, 05** (Dr. Daniel Gouré is vice president of the Lexington Institute, a defense-policy “think tank.” Prior to joining Lexington, he was the deputy director of the International Security Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in Washington, D.C., “The Tyranny of Forward Presence,” Naval Power in the Twenty-first Century A Naval War College Review Reader)</span>
<span class="Underline">The reality is that numbers matter. The U.S.…FY 2010, and to 2 percent in 2020.27</span>

<span class="Underline">**Shore-basing DA –** </span>
<span class="Underline">**A) Homebasing trades off with amphibious modernization which already solves the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Webb, 09** (Jim, US Senator from Virginia, a member of the Senate Committee on Armed Services and a former secretary of the Navy, letter to Deputy Secretary of Defense William Lynn, July 11, 2009 http://webb.senate.gov/newsroom/pressreleases/2009-06-11-02.cfm)</span>
<span class="Underline">I was struck by the growing level of…Jacksonville than a nuclear-powered aircraft carrier.</span>

<span class="Underline">**B) That turns hegemony and the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Howard and Groen, 11** – Captain Samuel C. Howard, US Navy, Cololnel Michael S. Groen, US Marine Corps “Amphibious, Now More than Ever,” Proceedings Magazine – November 2011, http://www.usni.org/magazines/proceedings/2011-11/amphibious-now-more-ever)</span>
<span class="Underline">Even though the threat symmetry may have changed, the Navy-Marine Corps team still needs the capability to insert ground troops from the sea. Ten years ago, the 9/11 terrorist attacks brought a…for by a windfall of ideas. It is time we turn to.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Resources DA – requirements of carrier defense allow enemies to undermine U.S. warfighting**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gady, 11** (Franz-Stefan is a defense analyst at the EastWest Institute, “Aircraft Carriers and Chinese Missiles: Time to Rethink the U.S. Naval Doctrine”, 1/21/11, http://www.ewi.info/aircraft-carriers-and-chinese-missiles-time-rethink-us-naval-doctrine)</span>
<span class="Underline">The symbol of American power, the aircraft carrier, is…to catch up faster with U.S. military might.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Further Fifth Fleet expansion will cause Iranian miscalc**</span>
<span class="Underline">**WIRED 3/16** (Gunboats, Super-Torpedoes, Sea-Bots: U.S. Navy Launches Huge Iran Surge, 2/16/2012, Wired Magazine, http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2012/03/navy-persian-gulf/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Sending more aircraft carriers to the waters…have to end a fight quickly if it breaks out.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No offense – carrier’s don’t sustain deterrence**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Marvin, 11** [Taylor, Prospect Journal of International Affairs UCSD, CUTTING US DEFENSE SPENDING IS NOT A THREAT TO AMERICAN SECURITY, http://prospectjournal.ucsd.edu/index.php/2011/09/cutting-us-defense-spending-is-not-a-threat-to-american-security/] </span>
<span class="Underline">However, US military spending far exceeds the…far in excess of any potential rivals.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Terrorism Advantage**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Terrorism Adv.</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Bases are secure – there’s zero precedent for the aff**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009 http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Navy has made no compelling argument…to the appropriate congressional defense committees.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No terrorist targeting**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009 http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf) </span>
<span class="Underline">Issue 2: There is no question that the risk of a…aftershocks, and/or fear among the U.S. population.” </span>

<span class="Underline">**Funding the aff is an opportunity cost to the navy’s strike fighter program – turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Petersen, 09** – Military Legislative Assistant Office of Senator Jim Webb, (Gordon I., “The U.S. Navy’s Proposed Homeporting of Additional Surface Ships at Naval Station Mayport, Florida A Critical Assessment,” Office of Senator Jim Webb January 2009 http://webb.senate.gov/issuesandlegislation/upload/CriticalAssessmentMayportHomeporting.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Issue 1: The Navy is substantially under-investing in…Mayport—a sufficient number of aircraft for one additional squadron.</span>

<span class="Underline">**No impact to terrorism** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Dalmia, 11** — senior analyst at Reason Foundation, columnist at Forbes, co-winner of the 2009 Bastiat Prize for Online Journalism, contributor to the op-ed pages of The Wall Street Journal, Los Angeles Times, New York Post, The Weekly Standard, Business Week, San Francisco Chronicle, and Chicago Tribune (Shikha, “What Islamist Terrorist Threat?”, Reason, 2/15/2011, http://reason.com/archives/2011/02/15/what-islamist-terrorist-threat)</span>
<span class="Underline">Know thy enemy is an ancient principle of…building a deep bench of terrorist talent overtime.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**NextGen**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Environment DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
**The plan results in greater construction of airports**
**Spence 12** (Charles, Washington D.C. Correspondent – General Aviation News, “Could NextGen Ground GA?”, General Aviation News, 4-10, http://www.generalaviationnews.com/2012/04/10/could-nextgen-ground-ga/)
WASHINGTON, D.C. — When good developments are made, most…need improvements and additional capacity.

**Airport construction destroys the environment**
**Luther, 7** (Linda Luther Environmental Policy Analyst Resources for Congressional Research Service, 4/5/7, “Environmental Impacts of Airport Operations, Maintenance, and Expansion”, http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/RL33949.pdf)
In the next 15 years, air travel is projected to…has caused projects to be delayed or cancelled.

===<span class="Underline">**EU-Japan Relations DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
**The plan increases American aerospace leadership over Europe**
**Olcott, 12** (Jack Olcott, 9/17/2012, “The Agony and Ecstasy Of NextGen: The Air Traffic Control System Of The Future”, http://www.forbes.com/sites/businessaviation/2012/09/17/the-agony-and-ecstasy-of-nextgen/)
European leaders in aerospace are actively pursuing…market.” If in doubt, ask Bill Gates.

**European dominance is critical to EU-Japan relations**
**McGuire, ‘7** – Steve McGuire is Senior Lecturer of International Business at the School of Management, University of Bath. [ “The United States, Japan and the aerospace industry: from capture to competitor?”. The Pacific Review, Vol. 20 No. 3 September 2007: 329–350. Routledge.]
Japanese policy makers and aerospace firms…not as the signal feature of the industry.

**Japanese-European relations solve Asian-European relations which solve every transnational threat including warming**
**Shiojiri, 11** (Kojiro Shiojiri, ambassador, 11/24/11, "Time to Deepen EU-Japan Relations", http://www.eu.emb-japan.go.jp/EU-Asia_Center_Article.html)
A Fast Changing World The world we live in…further strengthened in order to play a leading role.

**Extinction**
**Doebbler, 11** (Curtis, International Human Rights Lawyer, “Two threats to our existence”, Ahram Weekly, July 2011, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2011/1055/envrnmnt.htm)
Climate change is widely acknowledged to be the greatest…neighbours in developing countries. They continue in this vein.

====2NC Link==== 
**American Aerospace decline enhances Europe-Japan cooperation**
**McGuire, 7** (Steve McGuire, Senior Lecturer of International Business at the School of Management, University of Bath, “The United States, Japan and the aerospace industry: from capture to competitor?”. The Pacific Review, Vol. 20 No. 3 September 2007: 329–350. Routledge.)
Note: Airbus is a European air manufacturer
In the new millennium, increasing Japanese workshare…but rather suppliers, albeit important ones (Doyle 2002).

====2NC Afghanistan Stability Impact==== 
**Relations solve Afghanistan stability**
**Aso, ‘9** – Taro, prime minister of Japan [5/5/09, "A Japan-Europe Partnership to Surmount Global Challenges", Policy Speech., http://www.mofa.go.jp/region/europe/speech0905.html, BDD]
Japan and Europe are both devoting much attention…and held discussions on efforts towards the stability of Afghanistan.

**Afghani instability causes nuclear war**
**Morgan, 7** — former member of the British Labour Party Executive Committee, political writer including “The Mind of a Terrorist Fundamentalist – the Cult of Al Qaeda” (Stephen J., “Better Another Taliban Afghanistan, than a Taliban NUCLEAR Pakistan”, 3/4/2007, http://ezinearticles.com/?Better-Another-Taliban-Afghanistan,-than-a-Taliban-NUCLEAR-Pakistan?&id=475808)
However events may prove him sorely wrong. Indeed…with China and Russia pitted against the US.

====2NC Economy Impact==== 
**EU-Japanese relations turn the economy**
**Aso, 9** – Taro, prime minister of Japan [5/5/09, "A Japan-Europe Partnership to Surmount Global Challenges", Policy Speech., http://www.mofa.go.jp/region/europe/speech0905.html, BDD]
The first challenge is that of the current financial and…the reinforcement of the financial foundations of the IMF.

====2NC Hegemony Impact==== 
**EU dominance turns hegemony—European dominance is more effective than U.S. leadership**
**Khanna, 4** – Parag Khanna is a fellow in global governance at the Brookings Institution [July / August, Foreign Policy. http://www.paragkhanna.com/pdf/Parag%20Khanna_Metrosexual%20Superpower.pdf]
Metrosexuals always know how to dress…Bend It Like Brussels to play soon in capital cities worldwide.

====2NC Laundry List Impact==== 
**Europe-Japan relations solve every scenario for extinction**
**Aso, ‘9** – Taro, prime minister of Japan [5/5/09, "A Japan-Europe Partnership to Surmount Global Challenges", Policy Speech., http://www.mofa.go.jp/region/europe/speech0905.html, BDD]
The world is now facing unprecedented severe…address today by stating my determination in this regard.

====2NC Warming Impact==== 
**EU-Japanese relations solve warming**
**Aso, ‘9** – Taro, prime minister of Japan [5/5/09, "A Japan-Europe Partnership to Surmount Global Challenges", Policy Speech., http://www.mofa.go.jp/region/europe/speech0905.html, BDD]
The weak point of the Kyoto Protocol is that it covers…pillars and support the transition to a low-carbon society?


===<span class="Underline">**Terrorism DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
**The plan causes terrorist spoofing**
**Shore, 12** (John Shore, former airline pilot who is now an information security analyst at Dynamics Research Corp, 10/2/12, “OPINION: Take GPS spoofing seriously”, http://www.deepdiveintel.com/2012/10/02/opinion-take-gps-spoofing-seriously/)
In today’s cyber landscape, a terrorist posing as a…defense, but in civilian transportation industries as well.

**That causes the U.S. to lash out, precipitating global war**
**Schwartz-Morgan, 1** — assistant professor of politics and economics at Royal Military College of Canada (Nicole, “Wild Globalization and Terrorism”, 10/10/2001, http://www.wfs.org/mmmorgan.htm)
The terrorist act can reactivate atavistic defense…they be themselves merchants or terrorists.

===<span class="Underline">**Environment Adv.**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Environment</span>==== 
**No internal link – aviation’s impact on the environment is a drop in the bucket**
**Bisignani 07** – Director General and CEO of the International Air Transport Association from 2002-2011 (Giovanni, “Aviation and global warming,” The New York Times, 9/20, http://www.nytimes.com/2007/09/20/opinion/20iht-edbisi.1.7583290.html)
Hyperbole characterizes the debate on aviation and…part of the big problem of climate change.

**NextGen can’t offset rising demand --- that makes warming inevitable**
**Sebastian and Piltz, 07** (Thea Sebastian, Director Climate Science Watch Rick Piltz, Director Climate Science Watch, July 2007, “NextGen Air Transportation System Progress Reports Ignore Climate Change”, http://www.climatesciencewatch.org/file-uploads/NextGen_final_18jul07.pdf)
Third, NextGen/JPDO makes little commitment to alternative…offset the projected growth of aviation’s carbon footprint.

**NextGen increases emissions because of increased number of flights.**
**Tomer and Puentes 9** (Adie Tomer is a senior research associate and associate fellow at the Brookings Institution Metropolitan Policy Program and a member of the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. He holds a master’s in Public Policy from American University and a B.A. from the University of Florida. Robert Puentes is a senior fellow with the Brookings Institution’s Metropolitan Policy Program where he also directs the Program's Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative. “Expect Delays: An Analysis of Air Travel Trends in the United States” http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/10/08%20air%20travel%20tomer%20puentes/1008_air_travel_report.pdf, October 2009)
Environmental approach. FAA has yet to make decisions regarding…planning and safety and cost analyses.

===<span class="Underline">**Solvency**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC SQ Solves</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Obama is already funding NextGen**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hanley 12** (Ashley, staff writer for The Washington Post, “Obama signs FAA bill set to usher in progress on new air traffic control system”, 2/14/12, AD; 07/14/12, http://www.washingtonpost.com/obama-signs-faa-bill-set-to-usher-in-progress-on-new-air-traffic-control-system/2012/02/14/gIQAzlmPER_story.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">After 23 funding extensions and a two-week…to be involved in their development.”</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC SQ Solves -- Equipage Fund</span>==== 
**The Equipage Fund has already been created and is providing loans**
**Poole 12** (Robert, Director of Transportation Policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow – Reason Foundation, “FAA Reauthorization, Aviation Emissions Trading War, ATC User Fees, Europe's Next-Generation Milestones, ERAM Woes and FAA Shortcomings”, Air Traffic Control Reform Newsletter #90 – Reason Foundation, 2-24, http://reason.org/news/printer/air-traffic-control-reform-news-90)
Given this dismal outlook, one of the few…the loan guarantee provision up and running.

====<span class="Underline">1NC Won't Be Adopted</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Airlines won’t adopt NextGen – Fears of competition, free riding, and near term benefits**</span>
<span class="Underline">**bin Salam,** **12** — Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation (Sakib bin Salam, Fellow, Eno Center for Transportation, 4-12, “NextGen Aligning Costs, Benefits and Political Leadership,” Eno Center for Transportation Policy, https://www.enotrans.org/store/research-papers/nextgen-aligning-costs-benefits-and-political-leadership)</span>
<span class="Underline">Most US operators have been less than…to freeriding by other operators. </span>

==<span class="Underline">**NIB**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**NIB Stimulus Bad**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Stim. Bad</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**NIB reduces private investment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Samuel 11** (Peter, writter for the reason foundation and Toll Road News. 10/13/11. "Obama Infrabank Won't Fly." Toll Road News. www.tollroadsnews.com/node/5546)</span>
<span class="Underline">Roth noted that viable projects will get investor…scarce federal resources on unviable projects."</span>

<span class="Underline">**NIB creates new federal bureaucracy and stalls more infrastructure projects- the squo solves for any benefit**</span>
<span class="Underline">**CDP 11** (Federal Documents and Publications. 10/12/11. "National Infrastructure Bank Would Create More Red Tape & Federal Bureaucracy." Federal Information & Dispatch, Inc., Proquest)</span>
<span class="Underline">National Infrastructure Bank Would Create More…process for all projects, not just a handful." </span>

<span class="Underline">**Special interests DA --- destroys private capital markets** </span>
<span class="Underline">**MCCONVILLE ‘9** – masters in city & regional planning (“National Infrastructure Bank: What’s the Deal?”. December 11. http://thecityfix.com/blog/national-infrastructure-bank-whats-the-deal/)</span>
<span class="Underline">These disadvantages are described: With political…us build and carry out that vision?</span>

<span class="Underline">**Outsourcing DA --- plan causes less employment in the U.S. and more employment in China. Also creates an infrastructure bubble guaranteeing collapse**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Prestowitz 11** (Clyde, president of the Economic Strategy Institute and writes on the global economy for FP. 9/8/11. "Foreign Policy: Dear Mr. President, Let's Talk Jobs." NPR. www.npr.org/2011/09/08/140280982/foreign-policy-dear-mr-president-lets-talk-jobs)</span>
<span class="Underline">The plan results in less employment in the US…lead to another crash and further unemployment.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Inflation DA --- the plan screws with the deficit** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Utt, 11** --- Senior Research Fellow in Economic Policy at Heritage (9/14/2011, Ronald D., “UTT: Infrastructure ‘bank’ doomed to fail,” http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/sep/14/utt-infrastructure-bank-doomed-to-fail/,)</span>
<span class="Underline">President Obama remains enamored of an “infrastructure…the economic challenges confronting the nation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This causes hyperinflation and crushes the economy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cochrane, 11** - professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, AQR Capital Management Distinguished Service Professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, research associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, adjunct scholar at the Cato Institute (John H. “Inflation and Debt” http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/Cochrane_Inflation_and_Debt_National_Affairs.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">But these questions miss a grave danger. As…the Federal Reserve could do to stop it.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Consumer Spending DA --- the plan’s increase in spending causes consumer backlash and reactionary saving – that creates a negative multiplier effect**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Cochrane, 10** - professor of Finance at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business (John H. “Fiscal Stimulus, RIP” November 9, 2010, http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/john.cochrane/research/papers/stimulus_rip.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Before we spend a trillion dollars or so, it’s important to…as being logically incoherent 30 years ago.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Congressional influence DA – takes out investment and overfocus on rate of return means no solvency** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Istrate and Puentes 09** (Emilia, Senior Research Analyst at the Metropolitan Policy Program and Robert, Senior Fellow and Director, Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, Investing for Success: Examining a Federal Capital Budget and a National Infrastructure Bank, Brookings, December 2009, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/12/10%20infrastructure%20puentes/1210_infrastructure_puentes.pdf,)</span>
<span class="Underline">Filling the capital structure of infrastructure projects. Although…or direct federal funding in infrastructure.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Sustainability DA- the plan guts long term growth**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chin 11** (Curtis, served as U.S. ambassador to the Asian Development Bank from 2007 to 2010 under Presidents Barack Obama and George W. Bush."CHIN: Obama's Infrastructure Bank Won't Create Real Jobs." 10/17/11. Washington times.www.washingtontimes.com/news/2011/oct/17/obamas-infrastructure-bank-wont-create-real-jobs/?page=all)</span>
<span class="Underline">Certainly, the infrastructure in the United States…The two are not mutually exclusive.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Solvency</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Solvency</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**NIB doesn’t create significant revenue or private investment, and it only shifts project’s funding source.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pethokoukis 12** (James, conomics columnist and business editor at U.S.News & World Report magazine. 7/14/12. "The CBO just poured cold water on Obama’s idea for a national infrastructure bank." Richocet. ricochet.com/main-feed/The-CBO-just-poured-cold-water-on-Obama-s-idea-for-a-national-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span class="Underline">But a new report from the Congressional Budget…resulting in no net increase in investment. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Environmental regulations block solvency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pethokoukis 12** (James, conomics columnist and business editor at U.S.News & World Report magazine. 7/14/12. "The CBO just poured cold water on Obama’s idea for a national infrastructure bank." Richocet. ricochet.com/main-feed/The-CBO-just-poured-cold-water-on-Obama-s-idea-for-a-national-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span class="Underline">Finally, an infrastructure bank would do nothing…current proposals aren’t quite there yet.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Economy Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Economy</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Won’t create sustainable growth --- Japan proves**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Gregory, 11** --- research fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford (8/21/2011, Paul Roderick, “Why We Don't Need An Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/paulroderickgregory/2011/08/21/why-we-dont-need-an-infrastructure-bank-japan-is-why/)</span>
<span class="Underline">A president who preaches internationalism must look…a good candidate to buy the Brooklyn Bridge.</span>

<span class="Underline">**NIB is a drop in the bucket**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Poole 09** (Robert, director of transportation policy and Searle Freedom Trust Transportation Fellow at Reason Foundation. 2/3/09. "A National Infrastructure Bank?" Reason Foundation. reason.org/news/show/a-national-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span class="Underline">My initial reaction to this proposal is "Huh?" There's…seems like the proverbial drop in the bucket.</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC TI Internal Link</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Litany of alt causes to transportation failure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Winston 10** (Clifford, Senior fellow of economic studies at the Brookings Institute. 9/29/10. "The Private Sector Can Improve Infrastructure with Privatization not a Bank." Brookings. www.brookings.edu/research/opinions/2010/09/29-infrastructure-privatization-winston)</span>
<span class="Underline">The way we waste money on our transportation infrastructure…in infrastructure performance by selling them ownership?</span>

<span class="Underline">**American infrastructure is good– much better than pessimists predict** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Gobry, 12** – Founder of Noosphere, a new market research firm, worked at Business Insider where he co-created GI Intelligence, the company’s market research service. Business and economics columnist at Atlantico and a lecturer at HEG Paris business school, SeedCamp, and Le Camping (Pascal-Emmanuel, 7/26/12, “Why The Haters Are Wrong And American Infrastructure Is Actually Pretty Great,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/pascalemmanuelgobry/2012/07/26/why-the-haters-are-wrong-and-american-infrastructure-is-actually-pretty-good/2/)</span>
<span class="Underline">Well, it doesn’t seem to me that it’s impossible to…in the debate, which they don’t seem to be.</span>

===<span class="Underline">State Budgets Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC State Budgets</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Infrastructure bank will fail to produce enough income to cover infrastructure costs.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Utt 11** (Ron, , Ph.D., is the Morgan Senior Research Fellow in Economic Policy at the Heritage Foundation, “The Limited Benefits of a National Infrastructure Bank,” October 20, 2011, http://www.heritage.org/research/testimony/2011/10/the-limited-beneftis-of-a-national-infrastructure-bank)</span>
<span class="Underline">Beginning in the 1930s, the federal government…attempting to maintain a sound financial footing.</span>

**State budgets are recovering now and are expected to grow in the next fiscal year.**
**Sigritz, 12** (Brian, “State Budgets in 2011 and 2012: Recovery Begins for States, but Fiscal Conditions Remain Below Pre-Recession Levels,” Knowledge Center, July 3rd, 2012, http://knowledgecenter.csg.org/drupal/content/state-budgets-2011-and-2012-recovery-begins-states-fiscal-conditions-remain-below-pre-rece-1)
Fiscal conditions began to improve for states…including pensions and retiree health care costs

**No cuts – states recovering now, and new sources of income offset budget cuts**
**Oliff, 12** – Part of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities (Phil, “State Budgets: Improving, But a Long Recovery Ahead”, Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, 5/27/12, http://galesburgplanet.com/posts/14622)
States still face a long and uncertain recovery…even reverse some of the cuts that they’ve already made.

===Water Infrastructure DA=== 
====1NC DA==== 
**The plan decimates water infrastructure**
**Istrate and Puentes 09** (Emilia, Senior Research Analyst at the Metropolitan Policy Program and Robert, Senior Fellow and Director, Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative, Investing for Success: Examining a Federal Capital Budget and a National Infrastructure Bank, Brookings, December 2009, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2009/12/10%20infrastructure%20puentes/1210_infrastructure_puentes.pdf)
Sectors. There is also a concern that an NIB…size of transportation construction projects.

**Leads to waterborne diseases and turns the entirety of the case**
**ASCE 09** (American Society of Civil Engineers, http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/fact-sheet/drinking-water, “Drinking Water”)
Drinking water systems provide a critical public…failure consequences, and ease and cost of recovery.

**Waterborne disease uniquely causes global pandemics**
**Gannon 2k** (John C. Gannon, Chairman, National Intelligence Council, “The Global Infectious Disease Threat and its Implications for the United States,” January 2000, http://www.fas.org/irp/threat/nie99-17d.htm)
There were 19.5 million new malaria infections estimated…and a smaller number in nearby Singapore.

**Extinction**
**Darling 12** (Astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch and British astronomer David Darling, Seattle's Big Blog, “9 Strange Ways the World Really Might End,” http://blog.seattlepi.com/thebigblog/2012/03/18/9-strange-ways-the-world-really-might-end/?fb_xd_fragment, Washington State University)
Our body is in constant competition with…survival of our species could be threatened.

==<span class="Underline">**Port Dredging**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Biodiversity DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan collapses biodiversity** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Phernambucq 93** – District Engineer, U.S. Army Engineer (Stanley G, “DREDGING: KEY LINK IN THE STRATEGIC NATIONAL DEFENSE”, 15 April 1993, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA264544) // CB</span>
<span class="Underline">ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF DREDGING There are environmental…much is acceptable to the environment.2</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Diner, 94** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span class="Underline">To accept that the snail darter, harelip…be edging closer to the abyss. </span>

===<span class="Underline">Cotton DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Link</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan massively expands US cotton exports**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rossen 11** – Professor/Extension Economist and Director at the Center for North American Studies (Parr, "Impacts of Transportation Infrastructure on the U.S. Cotton Industry", May, Center for North American, cnas.tamu.edu/AMS%20Cotton%20Transportation%20Report%20June%202011.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The new Panama Canal lock system will be equipped…capacity limitations and be forced to expand.</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Link Threshold</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**We only need to win a low risk of a link – the cotton market is zero-sum and the US is at the bottom now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lyford and Welch, 4** — assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Applied Economics at Texas Tech University, AND assistant professor and Texas AgriLife Extension Economist in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Texas A&M University (Conrad P. and J. Mark, “Measuring Competition for Textiles: Does the U.S. Make the Grade?”, Texas Tech University, The International Cotton Research Center at Texas Tech University, presented at the Southern Agricultural Economics Association, 2/18/2004, http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/34616/1/sp04ly01.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">This study evaluates the competitiveness of…RCA values from 1989 to 2001, increasing 55%. </span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Brazil Economy Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Cotton exports are key to the Brazilian economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Kiawu, et. al., 11** — researchers for the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Economic Research Service (James, Constanza Valdes, and Stephen MacDonald, “Brazil’s Cotton Industry: Economic Reform and Development”, Economic Research Service, The U.S. Department of Agriculture, June 2011, http://www.ers.usda.gov/media/111523/cws11d01_1_.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Brazil is one of the world’s leading cotton producers…uncultivated, arable land in the Center-West region.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Brazilian economic collapse leads to regional instability**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Margolis 98** (Eric Margolis, foreign affairs editor for Sun Media Newspapers, Brazil meltdown is dire threat to U.S. economy, The Record, Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario, October 8, 1998)</span>
<span class="Underline">If Brazil implodes, Argentina, Chile and Mexico could…extremism -- and spread across Latin America.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That spreads – global warfare**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rochlin, 94** (James Francis, Professor of Political Science at Okanagan University College, “Discovering the Americas: the evolution of Canadian foreign policy towards Latin America,” p. 130-131)</span>
<span class="Underline">While there were economic motivations for Canadian…will be discussed in the next chapter.</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC China Economy</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Crushes the Chinese economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zhao and Tisdell, 9** — professor of agricultural economics at Wuhan University of Science and Engineering, AND, professor at the School of Economics, The University of Queensland (Xufu and Clem, “The Sustainability of Cotton Production in China and in Australia: Comparative Economic and Environmental Issues”, ECONOMICS, ECOLOGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT, Working Paper No. 157, The University of Queensland, June 2009, http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/55338/2/WP%20157.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Cotton has also served as an engine of economic…percent of U.S. Gross Domestic Product”.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Chinese economic decline leads to CCP collapse and triggers the impact**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Shirk, 7** — director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation and Ho Miu Lam professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs (Susan, Fragile China, pg. 3)</span>
<span class="Underline">As China’s leaders well know, the greatest political…not lashing out might endanger Party rule.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**Nuclear war**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Renxing, 5** (San, The Epoch Times “The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed”, 8/5/2005, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it…people hostage and gamble with their lives. </span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Pakistan Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Pakistan’s cotton-based textile industry is critical to stability**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Bloomberg 12** – Farhan Sharif, “Pakistan's Textile Industry Is Dangerously Fragile”, http://www.businessweek.com/articles/2012-04-26/pakistans-textile-industry-is-dangerously-fragile)</span>
<span class="Underline">Pakistan has one of the largest textile industries…shortage of energy to run its plants.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Solvency</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Solvency</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**They don’t solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Seagrave 11** -- * Professor and Chair, Department of Real Estate, Georgia State University, ** Director Of Business Development with Lathem Time Corporation (Jospeh and Philip, "Demand for warehouse and distribution center space", 3/22, The Counselors of Real Estate Vol. 36 Issue 1, www.freepatentsonline.com/article/Real-Estate-Issues/259467736.html) //NK</span>
<span class="Underline">The obvious conclusion is the port cities that…ultimate time schedule for these expanded ports.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Agriculture Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Agriculture</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Price volatility and decline is inevitable – too many factors**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Journal of Commerce, 12** ("Agriculture Trade a 'Risky Business'", April 16, Proquest)</span>
<span class="Underline">But high up in every glowing estimate is a…to mention plant disease or viruses.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Zero reason why the US is key**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Johnson, 11** – senior editor at the Council on Foreign Relations (Toni, “Food Price Volatility and Insecurity”, 8/9, http://www.cfr.org/food-security/food-price-volatility-insecurity/p16662)</span>
<span class="Underline">Growth in agriculture production is largely expected…much as a 25 percent difference in price.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Other countries make US agricultural competitiveness decline inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**USDA 11** – United States Department of Agriculture (USDA, “Chinese Agricultural Exports Provide Growing Competition,” 2/3/11, http://www.fas.usda.gov/info/WebStories/China_Export_020311.asp)</span>
<span class="Underline">With China becoming the second largest U.S. market…certain markets for consumer-oriented HVPs.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Trade Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Trade</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**No internal link – supply chain resiliency checks**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leamer and Thornburg 06** (Edward E. Leamer, University of California Los Angeles Professor in Economics and Statistics and Chair in Management, Director, UCLA Anderson Forecast, Christopher Thornburg, UCLA’s Anderson Forecast economist, previously taught MBA program, University of California San Diego’s Rady School of Business, “Protecting the Nation’s Seaports: Balancing Security and Cost,” Public Policy Institutes of California, http://www.ppic.org/content/pubs/report/r_606jhr.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">This is testimony partly to the great resilience…be postponed, but they are not prevented. </span>

<span class="Underline">**They don’t solve export competitiveness**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Calhoun, 11** — President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667”)</span>
<span class="Underline">Just like the nation itself, our maritime industry…the United States' precarious economic recovery. </span>

<span class="Underline">**No trade explosion – Panama expansion is hyped up by the industry for money – all of their evidence should be rejected** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Meyers, 12** – transportation reporter for Politico (Jessica, “Panama Canal expansion turns into ‘money grab’”, Politico, May 13 2012, http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0512/76224.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">The promise of a Panama Canal expansion has…money. So it becomes an excuse.”</span>

<span class="Underline">**No transport costs internal link – Panama expansion isn’t a huge difference**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Leach 10** (Peter, http://www.joc.com/maritime/locked-growth, “Locked In for Growth” Feb. 1)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ashar believes cost savings carriers offer over…means it has a minor impact.”</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC No Internal Link</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**At best, dredging is only 30% of the problem**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weakley 8** – Realize America’s Maritime promise, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, testimony of James Weakley the president of the Lake Carriers’ Association (James, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">America´s deep-draft navigation system is…the things that cause port directors nightmares.</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC No Panama Effect</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Panama expansion does nothing – at best, there will be single-digit growth – that obviously won’t collapse our economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Szakonyi 6/11**— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “Eastern US Rails Poised for Growth on Either Coast”, Journal of Commerce, , ProQuest, http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/1019810103?accountid=14667)</span>
<span class="Underline">That's good news for railroads, considering that…longshoremen union and cautious global container lines.</span>

====1NC Port Congestion Good==== 
<span class="Underline">**Port congestion is good – internal link turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conrad 03** (Stephen Conrad, Walter Beyeler, Richard Thomas, Thomas Corbet, Theresa Brown, Sandia National Laboratories, Gary Hirsch, Creator of Learning Environments, Christopher Hatzi, Transportation Strategies International, “How Do We Increase Port Security Without Imperiling Maritime Commerce? Using Flight Simulators and Workshops to Begin the Discussion,” 2003, http://www.garybhirsch.com/industry_files/A-port-paper.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ports have large fixed costs for facilities and…diminishes income and hinders capacity expansion.</span>

====2NC Port Congestion Good -- Turns Economy==== 
<span class="Underline">**Port Congestion turns the economy advantage** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Norquist, 11** – CEO & president of the Congress for the New Urbanism, served as mayor of Milwaukee from 1988-2004, and is the author of The Wealth of Cities (John Norquist, “The Case for Congestion”, The Atlantic Cities, 12/15/11, http://www.theatlanticcities.com/neighborhoods/2011/12/case-congestion/717/ | AK)</span>
<span class="Underline">From that day forward, they understood the…to the place where it is built?</span>

<span class="Underline">**No offense – routing industry development solves their offense and also boosts the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline">**deFiebre, 12** – transportation fellow, former editor at the Minnesota Star Tribune (Conrad deFiebre, “The Good Side of Traffic Congestion”, Minnesota 2020, 6/6/12, http://mn2020hindsight.org/view/the-good-side-of-traffic-congestion | AK)</span>
<span class="Underline">Over time, he noted, "People adapt to congested…ways beyond simply laying more pavement.</span>


==<span class="Underline">**Port Security**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Container Costs DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan collapses port container commerce**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conrad 03** (Stephen Conrad, Walter Beyeler, Richard Thomas, Thomas Corbet, Theresa Brown, Sandia National Laboratories, Gary Hirsch, Creator of Learning Environments, Christopher Hatzi, Transportation Strategies International, “How Do We Increase Port Security Without Imperiling Maritime Commerce? Using Flight Simulators and Workshops to Begin the Discussion,” 2003, http://www.garybhirsch.com/industry_files/A-port-paper.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">4. Many security measures can be designed…large increases in shipping delays and costs.</span>

**This devastates the coal industry**
**NRC 07** – National Research Council, elite council formed to meet the requirements of scientific and technical services (National Academy of Sciences, “Coal Research and Development to Support National Energy Policy”, June 2007, http://dels.nas.edu/resources/static-assets/materials-based-on-reports/reports-in-brief/coal_r&d_final.pdf)
Transport of Coal Growth in the use of…to minimize the risks of cascading system disruptions.

**That’s key to solve oil dependence**
**Sam-Ryong 08** (Park, November 28, “Clean coal: a promising oil alternative: To attain green growth, Korea aims to replace 8 percent of oil use with clean coal by 2018” LexisNexis)
The discovery of cheap and convenient oil enabled humans…half, compared to existing gasification technologies.

**Extinction**
**Lendman 07** (Stephen, renowned author and research associate at the Center for Research on Globalization, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?”, July 2007, http://www.rense.com/general76/-resrouce.htm)
With the world's energy supplies finite, the…big part of it, would have survived.

====2NC Coal High==== 
<span class="Underline">**Coal industry high now**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RDI 2/6/13** (Research driven investing “Coal Industry Expected to Rebound on Growing Demand From China in 2013” http://www.marketwire.com/press-release/coal-industry-expected-to-rebound-on-growing-demand-from-china-in-2013-nyse-anr-1753690.htm) </span>
<span class="Underline">Despite a steep drop in domestic demand the…entails inherent risks. Please view the full disclaimer</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Link</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The link snowballs and solves the entirety of the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conrad 03** (Stephen Conrad, Walter Beyeler, Richard Thomas, Thomas Corbet, Theresa Brown, Sandia National Laboratories, Gary Hirsch, Creator of Learning Environments, Christopher Hatzi, Transportation Strategies International, “How Do We Increase Port Security Without Imperiling Maritime Commerce? Using Flight Simulators and Workshops to Begin the Discussion,” 2003, http://www.garybhirsch.com/industry_files/A-port-paper.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Ports have large fixed costs for facilities and equipment…capacity diminishes income and hinders capacity expansion.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Customs inspections**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Conrad 03** (Stephen Conrad, Walter Beyeler, Richard Thomas, Thomas Corbet, Theresa Brown, Sandia National Laboratories, Gary Hirsch, Creator of Learning Environments, Christopher Hatzi, Transportation Strategies International, “How Do We Increase Port Security Without Imperiling Maritime Commerce? Using Flight Simulators and Workshops to Begin the Discussion,” 2003, http://www.garybhirsch.com/industry_files/A-port-paper.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">1. Some security measures can create substantial…ports achieve increased security might be warranted.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Speed and efficiency --- prefer expert consensus --- their authors are paid off by the industry and should be rejected**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Frittelli 05** (John F. Frittelli, Specialist in Transportation Resources, Science, and Industry Division, “Port and Maritime Security: Background and Issues for Congress,” CRS Report to Congress, May 27, 2005, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?AD=ADA453735)</span>
<span class="Underline">The container shipping system is designed for…by forcing companies to hold larger inventories.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Consumer costs and efficiency**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Beltzer, 11** (Michael H. Beltzer, Associate Professor of Industrial Relations in the Department of Interdisciplinary Studies of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Wayne State University. He also is a Research Scientist at the University of Michigan's Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations, and is Associate Director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation's Trucking Industry ProgramSupply Chain Security: Agency Theory and Port Drayage Drivers, Economic Labor Relations Review, http://search.proquest.com/docview/870060083/fulltext)</span>
<span class="Underline">Most solutions to date have been to increase…global financial meltdown occurred in 2007-2010. </span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Manufacturing Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan decimates the manufacturing industry**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nagel 11** – President of the American Association of Port Authorities (Kurt, “America’s Seaports Promote Prosperity”, United States Coast Guard, Summer 2011, http://www.uscg.mil/proceedings/Summer2011/articles/24_Nagle%20Prosperityi.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">As primary gateways for overseas trade, U.S. seaports…often rely on imported parts, components, and bulk commodities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That’s key to biomanufacturing**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lind and Freeman 12** (Michael Lind, policy director of New America’s Economic Growth Program and a co-founder of the New America Foundation, Joshua Freedman, program associate in New America’s Economic Growth Program, “Value Added: America’s Manufacturing Future,” New America Foundation, April 2012, http://growth.newamerica.net/sites/newamerica.net/files/policydocs/Lind,%20Michael%20and%20Freedman,%20Joshua%20-%20NAF%20-%20Value%20Added%20America%27s%20Manufacturing%20Future.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">In cutting-edge American laboratories, scientists and…of the transformation of American manufacturing.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Biomanufacturing solves bioterror -- turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Morgan 03** (Sarah Morgan East Texas Baptist University, Silverio Colon, Arizona State University Department of Bioengineering College of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Judith A. Ruffner and John A. Emerson, Organic Materials Department, “Biomanufacturing: A State of the Technology Review” September 2003, http://www.che.ncsu.edu/academics/concentrations/documents/Biomanufacturing-AStateofTechRev.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps the most unique and advantageous…the expertise to contribute to any one of these fields. </span>

===<span class="Underline">Cost Inequity DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
**The plan devastates developing countries --- leads to failed states and turns the case**
**Laite 10** – Parker Stone Laite III, B.A. “Maritime Trade Security: Promoter of Terrorism?” Mentor: Joseph Smaldone, Ph.D. (Northwestern University; Adjunct Professor of Liberal Studies, Georgetown University)
The major maritime trade security programs…promote an environment more favorable to terrorists.

====2NC Overview==== 
**Disad accesses a better internal link --- controls the root cause of the entirety of the case --- external global nuclear conflict impact**
**Lown, 96** (Bernard Lown, MD, Co-Founder of the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, 1996, Crude Nuclear Weapons Proliferation and the Terrorist Threat, IPPNW Global Health Watch Report Number 1, http://www.ippnw.org/crudenukes.pdf)
Nuclear apartheid cannot endure. The stimulus to…area rather than merely pulverizing a building.

====2NC AT: Link Uniqueness==== 
**The link is huge --- status quo is only 2% inspection --- the plan reduces trade by two billion dollars daily**
**Knight 03** (Sam Knight. Sam Knight has been working with the New Security Issues Programme at Chatham House. “The Bomb in the Box.” Chatham House: the World Today. http://search.proquest.com/education/docview/234225047/1376FF0AD42784B0113/10?accountid=11091)
The first challenge is that of scale. Container shipping…of trade that passes through US ports daily.

====2NC Genocide Impact==== 
**Turns the entirety of the case and leads to genocide**
**Manwaring, 5** (Max G. Manwaring, Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, Venezuela’s Hugo Chávez, Bolivarian Socialism, and Asymmetric Warfare, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)
The Issue of State Failure. - President Chávez also…of poverty, destabilization, and conflict.

**That comes first**
**Harff 81** (Barbara, Prof of Political Science Emerita @ U.S. Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD, “Humanitarian Intervention As A Remedy For Genocide,”, p. 40)
One of the most enduring and abhorrent problems…genocide is a universal concern.

===<span class="Underline">Trade DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan steam rolls global trade**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Keefer 08** (Wendy J. “Container Port Security: A Layered Defense Strategy to Protect The Homeland and The International Supply Chain” Campbell Law Review Vol. 30:139)</span>
<span class="Underline">The only way wholly to ensure terrorists are…maritime trade to an economically unacceptable level. 64</span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Perception</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**It’s perceived as protectionism --- that leads to backlash**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lukas, 04** (Aaron Lukas, a former policy analyst with Cato's Center for Trade Policy Studies, former chief speechwriter and strategic adviser for U.S. Trade Representative Robert B. Zoellick, “Protection without Protectionism,” The Cato Institute, April 8, 2004, http://www.cato.org/pubs/tpa/tpa-027.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">The optimal balance between security and openness…while providing little additional security. </span>

====<span class="Underline">2NC Liberty Impact</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**This turns their security internal link and decimates trade --- it collapses port freedom and suspends liberty**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Firestone 03** (Jeremy Firestone and James Corbett. Firestone University of Delaware Associate Professor, Marine Policy Associate Professor of Legal Studies, University of Delaware Professor of Marine Policy “Maritime Transportation: A Third Way for Port and Environmental Security,” Widener Law Symposium Journal, 9:419-437, http://23parallel.com/CMS/jfirestone/CorbettFirestonePublication.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Increased port security will not come without…environmental protection, subject to a budget.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Reject every instance** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Petro 74** (Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html)</span>
<span class="Underline">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest…emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit.</span>

===<span class="Underline">Solvency</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC SQ Solves</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Status quo solves – House passed SMART Port Security Act to increase protection measures**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Miller 12** (Candice Miller, U.S. Representative for the State of Michigan, 6/28/12, “House Passes SMART Port Security Act,” http://candicemiller.house.gov/press-release/house-passes-smart-port-security-act)</span>
<span class="Underline">WASHINGTON – U.S. Representative Candice Miller…its components, industry and international partners.”¶</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Delays</span>==== 
**Plan’s technology takes forever**
**Royal Society 8** (Royal Society of Science, “Detecting nuclear and radiological materials”, March, http://www.nuclearfiles.org/menu/key-issues/nuclear-weapons/issues/governance/international-coop/PDFs/displaypagedoc[1].pdf)
Muon detection is a very promising passive method…hours to unpack the cargo to locate it.

**Even small delays matter: every minute of MMPDS delays slows the port by 300%**
**Armitage 9** (John, Professor of Physics – Carleton University, “Cosmic Ray Inspection and Passive Tomography for SNM Detection”, International Conference on Applications of Nuclear Techniques, American Institute of Physics Conference Proceedings, 1194, 24)
If the muon system is required to scan 100%…solution is an important objective of the CRIPT project.


===Terrorism Adv.=== 
====1NC Terrorism==== 
<span class="Underline">**Terrorists won’t target ports** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wagner 07** (Breanne Wagner, November 2007, staff writer, National Defense, “License to Boat?,” Vol. 92 Issue 648, p. 24, Ebsco Host)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the CRS report, analysts Paul Pariomak and…of global attacks involved sea targets.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Even if they wanted to, they couldn’t – their evidence exaggerates**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Mueller 07** (John Mueller, Woody Hayes Chair of National Security Studies, Mershon Center Professor of Political Science, “Reactions and Overreactions to Terrorism: The Atomic Obsession,” July 24, 2007, http://polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/APSA2007.PDF)</span>
<span class="Underline">Nonetheless, terrorism analyses tend to focus on…firm in charge of U.S. port security. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The plan doesn’t solve**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rugy 04** (Veronique de Rugy, senior research fellow at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University, former resident fellow at the American Enterprise Institute, former policy analyst at the Cato Institute, former research fellow at the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, “What Does Homeland Security Spending Buy?” American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research, October 29, 2004, http://polisci.osu.edu/faculty/jmueller/DERUGY.PDF)</span>
<span class="Underline">Second, allocating money efficiently means that the…will not achieve meaningful security either. </span>

<span class="Underline">**Assign this a 2% risk – no attacks on ports**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Chalk, 08** (Peter, political scientist at the RAND corporation, 2008, “The Maritime Dimension of International Security: Terrorism, Piracy, and Challenges for the United States,” page 19, http://www.rand.org/pubs/monographs/2008/RAND_MG697.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Historically, the world’s oceans have not been a…have traditionally prevented groups from accessing options.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Relational Planning [OPRF]**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**Framework**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC FW</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Resolved reflects a legislative forum** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 98** (dictionary.com)</span>
<span class="Underline">Resolved: 5. To express, as an opinion…no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>

<span class="Underline">**Should implies an obligation or duty**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Compact Oxford English Dictionary, 8** (“should”, 2008, http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/should?view=uk)</span>
<span class="Underline">should modal verb (3rd sing. should) 1 used to…first person) expressing a conjecture or hope.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**States do Multi-scalar Analysis for Non-TI CP**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC CP</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Text: The 50 states and all relevant territories should guarantee current and future multi-scalar analysis for the analyzing of all current and future non-transportation infrastructure for the purpose of relational planning but should not invest in transportation infrastructure.** </span>

<span class="Underline">**The conclusion of last paragraph of the 1AC main solvency advocate says the CP facilitates the integrated understanding of infrastructure --- solves the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Edwards, 02** (Paul N., Professor of Information @ University of Michigan Department of History, Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn, Eds. Philip Brey, Arie Rip, and Andrew Feenberg, MIT Press, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems”)</span>
<span class="Underline">Multi-scalar analysis requires an…modernity, we must at least make the attempt.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Environmental Objectification DA**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan breaks down the objectification of the environment --- this shatters the romance of technological utopianism**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Edwards, 02** (Paul N., Professor of Information @ University of Michigan Department of History, Technology and Modernity: The Empirical Turn, Eds. Philip Brey, Arie Rip, and Andrew Feenberg, MIT Press, “Infrastructure and Modernity: Force, Time, and Social Organization in the History of Sociotechnical Systems”)</span>
<span class="Underline">Modernity studies typically approach technology as…utopianism and reinforcing the modernist settlement.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Three impacts ---**</span>
<span class="Underline">**a) Human/environment dichotomy solves extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Soule, 95** (Michael E., Professor and Chair of Environmental Studies, UC-Santa Cruz, REINVITING NATURE? RESPONSES TO POSTMODERN DECONSTRUCTION, Eds: Michael E. Soule and Gary Lease, p. 159-160)</span>
<span class="Underline">Should We Actively Manage Wildlands and Wild…manage, where do we look for ethical guidance? </span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Romanticism of technological utopianism --- this is critical to prevent threats to survival**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Fresco and Meadows 07** (Jacque & Roxanne; Structural designer, architectural designer, philosopher of science, concept artist, educator, and futurist, founder of The Venus Project; B.F.A. from Maryland Institute of Art. She studied technical and architectural rendering and model making under Jacque Fresco for 4 years; “Designing the Future”)</span>
<span class="Underline">According to many polls, a majority of scientists think…who sought change that threatened the status quo.</span>

<span class="Underline">**c) Turns the case --- rejecting our separation from infrastructure dooms infrastructure to failure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Campbell 99** professor of international politics, University of Newcastle Moral Spaces: Rethinking Ethics and World Politics, ed. Campbell and Shapiro, p. 56. </span>
<span class="Underline">104. Ibid., 76-79. Levinas has also argued for a politics…of means and ends." Kearney and Levinas, "Dialogue with Emmanuel Levinas," 28.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**Case**</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Case</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Powerlessness DA --- the embrace of our “powerlessness” doesn’t lead to “haunting” but rather collapses collective compassion and turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Macy 2K** – Joanna Macy, adjunct professor at the California Institute of Integral Studies, 2000, Environmental Discourse and Practice: A Reader, p. 243</span>
<span class="Underline">The move to a wider ecological sense of self…to what we do to other beings. </span>

<span class="Underline">**True Projection DA --- eliminating the lash out from the “haunting of the unknown” makes genocide and extinction inevitable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hoffman, 86** (Stanley, Center for European Studies at Harvard, “On the Political Psychology of Peace and War: A Critique and an Agenda,” Political Psychology 7.1 JSTOR)</span>
<span class="Underline">The traditionalists, even when, in their own…that should not be minimized or denied.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Narcissism DA --- focusing on “appropriating ourselves ethically with infrastructure” only fuels the ego --- turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline">**FRAZER 2006** (Michael L. Frazer, PhD, “The Compassion of Zarathustra: Nietzsche on Sympathy and Strength,” http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/The%20Compassion%20of%20Zarathustra.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Perhaps we should turn our attention from the…whether one is worth anything or not” (WM 910, p. 481).</span>

<span class="Underline">**No impact to ethics – util outweighs** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cummisky 96** (David, professor of philosophy at Bates College, Kantian Consequentialism, pg. 145)</span>
<span class="Underline">We must not obscure the issue by characterizing…one may have to sacrifice some to save many.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Psycho-torture DA – attempting to end our “response to control” and remove the “haunting of the unknown” from humans fails and over-expends the subject causing cognitive torture**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Pyszczynski et al 6** – Tom, Prof. Psych. – U. Colorado, Sheldon Solomon, Prof. Psych. – Skidmore College, Jeff Greenberg, Prof. Psych. – U. Arizona, and Molly Maxfield, U. Colorado, Psychological Inquiry, “On the Unique Psychological Import of the Human Awareness of Mortality: Theme and Variations” 17:4, Ebsco</span>
<span class="Underline">Kirkpatrick and Navarette’s (this issue) first specific complaint…reactions in response to such threats?</span>

<span class="Underline">**Agency DA --- their appeal to the State passes the buck on individual responsibility --- turns the case** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Kappeler, 95** (Susanne, The Will to Violence, p. 10-11)</span>
<span class="Underline">'We are the war' does not mean that the…and the values of war and violence.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Roads</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Biodiversity DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Roads destroy the environment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Switalski and Davis 09** (Adam Switalski Science Program Director Faculty Affiliate of the University of Montana’s Environmental Studies Program and sits on the Board of the Montana Chapter of the Society for Conservation Biology and Liane Davis “Mitigating the Impacts of Roads as a Climate Change Adaptation Strategy Road” RIPorter Issue: Summer Solstice 2009, Volume 14 # 2 June 25, 2009, http://www.wildlandscpr.org/road-riporter/mitigating-impacts-roads-climate-change-adaptation-strategy)</span>
<span class="Underline">Climate change is exacerbating the many human-caused…and a reduction in available habitat.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Diner 1994** (Judge Advocate’s General’s Corps of US Army, David N., Military Law Review, Winter, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161,)</span>
<span class="Underline">No species has ever dominated its fellow…may be edging closer to the abyss.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Waterways</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">Biodiversity DA</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC DA</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan is an environmental nightmare – crushes aquatic biodiversity**</span>
<span class="Underline">**MARAD 11** (U.S. Department of Transportation Maritime Administration, America’s Marine Highway Report to Congress, Prepared in Consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency, April 2011, p. 27)</span>
<span class="Underline">As discussed above, developing America’s Marine…and safe development of America’s Marine Highway.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Extinction**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Diner, 94** [David, Ph.D., Planetary Science and Geology, "The Army and the Endangered Species Act: Who's Endangering Whom?," Military Law Review, 143 Mil. L. Rev. 161]</span>
<span class="Underline">To accept that the snail darter, harelip sucker, or…may be edging closer to the abyss. </span>

===<span class="Underline">Economy Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Congestion</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Can’t solve congestion – also adds additional handling costs**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Perakis and Denisis, 8** – Department of Naval Architecture & Marine Engineering, University of Michigan (Anastassios N. Perakis and Athanasios Denisis, “A survey of short sea shipping and its prospects in the USA”, Maritime Policy and Management, December 2008, http://www.maritimeadvisors.com/pdf/Survey%20of%20SSS%20Prospects%20in%20the%20U.S..pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">1. Additional handling costs. SSS adds…loading and unloading of the cargo. </span>

<span class="Underline">**No model shift**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Schultz 07** – Contributing Editor at Logistics Management Magazine and Transportation/Trucking/Railroad Consultant (John, “The Winner of 2007's Worst Idea of Transportation? Hands-down, it's Short-Sea Shipping”, Logistics Management Magazine, October 18, 2007, https://www.hightable.com/trucking/insight/the-winner-of-2007s-worst-idea-of-transportation-handsdown-its-shortsea-shipping-18054)</span>
<span class="Underline">There is a movement among a few politicians…shipping idea working for Arizonans, Ms. Peters?</span>

====<span class="Underline">1NC Stimulus</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan’s stimulus is too small** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Shostak, 10** – Adjunct Scholar of the Mises Institute (Frank, “Does the US Economy Need Another Stimulus Package?”, Ludwig von Mises Institute, 9/17/10, http://mises.org/daily/4711) </span>
<span class="Underline">But why should another stimulus program…likely to produce the needed result.</span>


===<span class="Underline">Shipbuilding Adv.</span>=== 
====<span class="Underline">1NC Shipbuilding</span>==== 
<span class="Underline">**Plan’s not key – status quo solves** </span>
<span class="Underline">**a) Contracts**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Daily Press, 12** (Virginia Daily Press News, http://www.dailypress.com/business/peninsula-businesses/dp-nws-shipyard-sequestration-20120625,0,7092747.story) </span>
<span class="Underline">Newport News Shipbuilding has several years worth of…sequestration manifest themselves," he said. </span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Fuel prices**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Maritime Executive 6/25/12** (Shipping Industry Improving – Freight Rates to Be Pressured by Growing Ship Supply, http://www.maritime-executive.com/article/shipping-industry-improving-freight-rates-to-be-pressured-by-growing-ship-supply)</span>
<span class="Underline">The Shipping Industry has recently benefited from…Ltd. and Genco Shipping & Trading Limited.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Doesn’t help the industry – still a net zero profit margin**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Sarder 10** – Industrial Engineering Technology at The University of Southern Mississippi (MD B., Ahad Ali, Susan Ferreira, Mohammad A. Rahman, “Managing Material Flow at the US Shipbuilding Industry,” January 10, 2010, http://www.iieom.org/paper/132%20MD%20Sarder.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Building a ship utilizes highly complex processes…to make a profit within its limited market. </span>

<span class="Underline">**The aff crushes the merchant flag fleet and the shipbuilding industry ---** </span>
<span class="Underline">**a) Dependency DA – devastates upgrades and competitiveness and skill – terminally unsustainable**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Carmel 12** – Sr. Vice President Maritime Services at Maersk Line, Limited (Stephen, “With so few U.S.-Flagged ships and carriers, is America still a maritime power?” Information Dissemination, June 11, 2012, http://www.informationdissemination.net/2012/06/with-so-few-us-flagged-ships-and.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">There are currently just fewer…their skills, and probably just the opposite.</span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Competition DA – plan stifles innovation and healthy growth** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Winter 07** – “Getting Shipbuilding RIGHT” Donald C Winter (Chairman of the National Academy of Engineering, 74th Secretary of the Navy, leader of America’s Navy and Marine Corps Team, member of the National Academy of Engineering) United States Naval Institute. Proceedings. Annapolis: Jun 2007. Vol. 133, Iss. 6; pg. 16,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8px;">Third, the shipbuilding market is such that the Navy has little ability to reap the benefits of competition. In many cases, the competition consists of only two companies, and sometimes even then there are limits on the degree of competition between them. The consolidation of the shipbuilding industry has reduced competition to the point that there is no competition for many major systems that we purchase. Under normal market conditions, competition drives innovation and investment, and without intense competitive pressures, both will inevitably suffer. As a result of the lack of competition in shipbuilding, competitive factors rarely drive us towards optimal solutions, or adequate investment levels. </span>