[[toc]]
=Kritiks= 
==<span class="Underline">**Ableism**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The affirmative choice of the mechanism of transportation is not neutral --- it ascribes to ableist norms of movement and creates corporeal inequality** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Imrie 2k** (Rob Imrie, Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London, “Disability and Discourses of Mobility and Movement,” Environment and Planning, Vol. 32, January 6, 2000, http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly…to have their needs defined and met by others”.</span>

<span class="Underline">**These corporeal divisions are the foundation of eugenic mass extermination of the Other which outweighs and lies at the root of the 1AC --- vote negative to reject 1AC’s normalization of mobility**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Wilson 06** (Daniel J. Wilson, “Cultural Locations of Disability,” October 8, 2006)</span>
<span class="Underline">In two chapters on the eugenics movement, Snyder and…as abnormal and in need of repair or elimination.</span>

===<span class="Underline">1NC Alt [v. Wise Whiteness]</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Instead we advocate their method of Wise Whiteness and engagement of our social location to end racism but through alternative and non-transportation means including but not limited to taking steps to reconfigure the inherently racist Urban education system** </span>
<span class="Underline">**McGhan, 72** ("Urban Schools Promote Racism", www.publicschoolrenewal.org/essays/racism2.html, Barry is the President of the Center for Public School Renewal)</span>
<span class="Underline">The racism in society has a great impact on urban schools…can prevent future students from being cheated by the system.</span>

===2NC AT: Permutation=== 
**The permutation is the exact footnoting of the disabled that we criticize --- questions of the disabled Other must precede their advocacy or it’s doomed to fail**
**Campbell 09** (Dr. Fiona Kumari Campbell, Griffith University, Law School Faculty, “Disability Advocacy & Ableism: Towards a Re-Discovery of the Disability Imagination,” November 2009, http://www.academia.edu/196555/Disability_Advocacy_and_Ableism_Towards_a_re-discovery_of_the_disability_Imagination)
Working models Working models (often called conceptual…something to do with us becoming disabled….

===2NC Link/Impact=== 
**Embrace of transportation is a subscription to the mobile body which alienates the disabled other reinforcing difference** 
**Imrie 2k** (Department of Geography, Royal Holloway, University of London Rob Disability and discourses of mobility and movement Environment and Planning volume 32 http://www.environmentandplanning.com/epa/fulltext/a32/a331.pdf)
Mobility and movement are core to people's…of the body, mobility, and movement.

===2NC Turns Ontology=== 
**Eugenic violence to the disabled body is the worst form of ontic violence --- confrontation is critical to ontological reorientation**
**Hughes 07** (Bill Hughes, Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University “Being Disabled: Towards a Critical Social Ontology for Disability Studies,” Disability & Society 22.7, Taylor & Francis)
In summary, the universalistic approach to…misrepresent and sometimes destroy disabled peoples lives.

===2NC Turns Fear=== 
**Their footnoting of the disabled body is a projection of the fear they criticize --- breaking down the corporeal hierarchy of existence is critical to expose the illusion of fear**
**Hughes 07** (Bill Hughes, Head of Division of Sociology Glasgow Caledonian University, “Being disabled: towards a critical social ontology for disability studies Disability & Society 22.7 Taylor & Francis, 2007)
Indeed, the invulnerable self is a fantasy…fantasy of absolute able bodiedness’ (Thomson, 1997, p. 45).

==<span class="Underline">**Bataille**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff is wed to a dangerous anxiety of the icy wind of death – this ceaseless terror destroys life and makes catastrophic violence inevitable** </span>
<span class="Underline">**DAVIS 2001** (Walter A. Davis, Professor of English at Ohio State, 2001, “Deracination: Historicity, Hiroshima, and the Tragic Imperative,” p. 103-104)</span>
<span class="Underline">We begin with an effort to describe what is the deepest…because the breakdown has already occurred.8 </span>

<span class="Underline">**This flee from death flees from life itself – alternatively, in the face of extinction, vote negative to sacrifice the 1AC – only through total sacrifice of the plan can we restore life**</span>
<span class="Underline">**RAZINSKY 2009** (Liran Razinsky, University of Wisconsin, “How to Look Death in the Eyes: Freud and Bataille”)</span>
<span class="Underline">Thus we see that the stakes are high. What is…fresh, and interesting when death is witnessed directly.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Overview**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The constant search for the Fountain of Youth means we’re all already dead as we become no more than bits and pieces of pure horror**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Zizek, 2** (Slavoj, The Puppet and the Dwarf, 94-95)</span>
<span class="Underline">Insofar as “death” and “life” designate for Saint…are ready to take this risk are we really alive. </span>

<span class="Underline">**This search for the Fountain via transportation infrastructure fails – the linear battle plan to fight death is flawed**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Frazier 04** – Frazier is a graduate student researcher at UT, while Kockelman is an assistant professor of civil engineering at UT (Kara and Christopher, “Chaos Theory and Transportation Systems: An Instructive Example”, 9/17/04, http://www.ce.utexas.edu/prof/kockelman/public_html/trb04chaos.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">This paper was motivated by a hypothesis that transportation…addressed through application of chaos theory. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Alternative**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The alt solves extinction – conquering fear is critical to life affirmation and preventing nuclear war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Child, 86** (James W., professor of philosophy, Bowling Green State University, “Nuclear War: The Moral Dimension,” Transaction Publishers, pg. 176, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">Likewise, we must develop strong, unfrightened, affirmative attitudes…war if we are ever to make that risk go away. </span>

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Risk Assessment**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s fear of death creates a tunnel-vision focus on the Fountain’s escape from death and rejects what we don’t know rather than trying to understand it – this generates endless violence and privileges speculation and fear over concrete risk assessment based on the probability of impacts which guarantees error replication and serial policy failure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Furedi 10** (Frank Furedi, professor of sociology at the University of Kent and author of several books, “Fear is key to irresponsibility”, 10/9/2010, http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/opinion/fear-is-key-to-irresponsibility/story-e6frg6zo-1225935797740 -- note replaced as with is for grammar noted by brackets)</span>
<span class="Underline">In the 21st century the optimistic belief in humanity's potential for…than risk assessment, that led to a panicky official ban on air traffic.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**False Heroism**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
**The aff is a façade --- a pseudo-sign image of real progress**
**Williams 2k** (Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, “The (Im)Possibility of Democratic Justice and the ‘Gift’ of the Majority,” Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, Vol. 16, No. 3, August 2000, pgs. 321-343)
The impediments to establishing democratic justice in…a hypertext or simulation) of real sociopolitical progress.

**This narcissistic reinforcement of power turns the case**
**Williams 2k** (Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, “The (Im)Possibility of Democratic Justice and the ‘Gift’ of the Majority,” Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, Vol. 16, No. 3, August 2000, pgs. 321-343)
Reciprocation on your part is impossible. Even…fueling the voracious conceit of the advantaged.

**Their demand for the ballot is trapped in a web of scheming --- this poisons their call for change**
**McGowan 09** (Todd McGowan, Associate Professor, film theory, University of Vermont, PhD, Ohio State University, studies the intersection of Hegel, psychoanalysis, and existentialism and cinema, “The Exceptional Darkness of The Dark Knight,” Jump Cut, No. 51, Spring 2009, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/jc51.2009/darkKnightKant/text.html)
According to Kant, when we emerge as…enslaves one to the object of one’s scheme.

**The alternative is to vote negative because the 1AC’s ethics are right --- to be the Dark Knight --- this is the only option for true heroism and substantive change**
**McGowan 09** (Todd McGowan, Associate Professor, film theory, University of Vermont, PhD, Ohio State University, studies the intersection of Hegel, psychoanalysis, and existentialism and cinema, “The Exceptional Darkness of The Dark Knight,” Jump Cut, No. 51, Spring 2009, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/jc51.2009/darkKnightKant/text.html)
Just as The Dark Knight illustrates the inextricable relation…identify themselves with the evil that we fight.

===2NC Overview=== 
**The aff reduces us to mere pawns on their chessboard and controls the root cause of the 1AC’s harms and destroys the value to life**
**Dillon 99** (Michael Dillon, University of Lancaster, “Another Justice,” Political Theory, 1999, http://ptx.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/27/2/155)
Economies of evaluation necessarily require calculability…lack constitutive of the humanway of being.

**This mix of the competition for wins and losses via the ballot with emancipatory strategies destroys productive dialogue and risks breaking down coalitions necessary to create community-wide change**
Martin **Osborn** (Former Missouri Debater, NDT and CEDA top speaker and semifinalist, and darling of the debate community) August **2008** “towson” http://www.ndtceda.com/pipermail/edebate/2008-August/075583.html
The idea that debate isn't at some point competitive is…irresponsible of me to not make this post at some point.

===2NC Exceptionalism K=== 
**The mandate to vote affirmative as an endorsement of their call for change creates an exception in your decision, positioning an affirmative ballot as the heroic choice --- this “infinite obligation” to vote affirmative is limitless exceptionality that justifies mass genocide and endless warfare --- only voting neg solves**
**McGowan 09** (Todd McGowan, Associate Professor, film theory, University of Vermont, PhD, Ohio State University, studies the intersection of Hegel, psychoanalysis, and existentialism and cinema, “The Exceptional Darkness of The Dark Knight,” Jump Cut, No. 51, Spring 2009, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/jc51.2009/darkKnightKant/text.html)
Italian philosopher Giorgio Agamben sees the…the War on Terror as a quasi-eternal struggle.

===<span class="Underline">**2NC Link**</span>=== 
**The result of the plan is scapegoating and transference of violence**
**Delgado 03** (Richard Delgado, Professor of Law at Pitt, Texas Law Review, November 2003)
By the same token, Brown v. Board of Education…of that frustration but who are safer to attack.

**Their reductionist focus on transportation fails**
**Arrigo 2k** (Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, “The Philosophy of the Gift and the Psychology of Advocacy: Critical Reflections on Forensic Mental Health Intervention,” International Journal for the Semiotics of Law, Vol. 13, No. 2, 2000, pgs. 215-242)
There is one last feature of Nietzsche’s theoretical…his/her unique role as (mental health) advocate.

**Re-appropriates hegemonic domination**
**Arrigo 2k** (Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, “The Philosophy of the Gift and the Psychology of Advocacy: Critical Reflections on Forensic Mental Health Intervention,” International Journal for the Semiotics of Law, Vol. 13, No. 2, 2000, pgs. 215-242)
Proponents of mental health treatment regard the…knew what was in her or his best interest.

**The soothing of our own selfish desire to feel good also turns the case**
**Frazer 06** (Michael L. Frazer, PhD, “The Compassion of Zarathustra: Nietzsche on Sympathy and Strength,” http://www.gov.harvard.edu/files/The%20Compassion%20of%20Zarathustra.pdf)
Perhaps we should turn our attention from the subject…one is worth anything or not” (WM 910, p. 481).

**The debt from the aff turns the case and leads to mass self-inflicted violence**
**Khan 94** (Ali Khan, Law Professor 3at Washburn University school of Law, “Lessons from Malcolm X: Freedom by Any Means Necessary,” 38, Howard Law Journal 81, http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?handle=hein.journals/howlj38&id=89&type=text&collection=journals)
The second aspect of oppression is a systematic assault…and degradation eliminate the dignity of the entire group.56

===2NC Link -- Activism=== 
**Their plea for change through winning the ballot not only fails to inculcate communal response but also re-entrenches the very evil they criticize --- rejecting the notion that one creates change through the ballot is our only hope**
**Atchison and Panetta 09** (Jarrod Atchison, Director of Debate @ Trinity University, and Edward Panetta, Director of Debate @ the University of Georgia, Intercollegiate Debate and Speech Communication: Issues for the Future, p. 317-34)
The larger problem with locating the “debate as…a tremendous effort by a great number of people.

===2NC Alternative=== 
**To be a martyr is a better method for generating community wide awareness and change and avoids the road to fascism turning their ethics**
**McGowan 09** (Todd McGowan, Associate Professor, film theory, University of Vermont, PhD, Ohio State University, studies the intersection of Hegel, psychoanalysis, and existentialism and cinema, “The Exceptional Darkness of The Dark Knight,” Jump Cut, No. 51, Spring 2009, http://www.ejumpcut.org/archive/jc51.2009/darkKnightKant/text.html)
The film begins with Batman’s grasp of the problem, as …superhero embodies avoid placing us on the road to fascist rule.

===2NC AT: Alt Links Too=== 
**The alternative is invisible --- the lack of the appearance of the gift solves our offense**
**Williams 2k** (Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, “The (Im)Possibility of Democratic Justice and the ‘Gift’ of the Majority,” Journal of Contemporary Criminal Justice, Vol. 16, No. 3, August 2000, pgs. 321-343)
Much of the distinction between law and justice has…condition under which a gift can be given (Derrida, 1991).

===2NC AT: Aff is Genuine=== 
**Their lack of consciously examining their advocacy doesn’t mean there’s no link --- rather, it supercharges our egoism arguments and means their epistemology is bankrupt**
**Arrigo 2k** (Bruce A. Arrigo, PhD, administration of justice, professor of criminology, law, and society, Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of North Carolina, Faculty Associate in the Center for Professional and Applied Ethics, Christopher R. Williams, PhD, forensic psychology, professor and chairman of the Department of Criminal Justice Studies at Bradley University, “The Philosophy of the Gift and the Psychology of Advocacy: Critical Reflections on Forensic Mental Health Intervention,” International Journal for the Semiotics of Law, Vol. 13, No. 2, 2000, pgs. 215-242)
The psychological egoist questions the possibility of acting…to the logic of charitable, altruistic, intervening behavior.

==<span class="Underline">**Farley**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**A. The Line**</span>

<span class="Underline">**American society revolves around the colorline – an imaginary border separating white from black to generate pleasure and maintain the fantasy of race. The affirmative reifies this dangerous fantasy by accepting race as a natural form of being rather than a power relationship.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FARLEY**, Professor of Constitutional Law, First Amendment, Criminal Procedure, Law & Slavery, and Postmodern Legal Theory at Boston College Law School, **1997** Anthony Paul, The Black Body as Fetish Object, 76 Oregon Law Review 457, p. 462-468</span>
<span class="Underline">Normally, it is as a result of the vertigo…a place where power masks itself as nature.</span>

<span class="Underline">**And, the call for racial equality is a call for enslavement – ambiguities and the label of a negative attractor puts the subjugated in the situation of the slave. The affirmative’s call for equal rights is nothing more than the disguised desire for slavery.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FARLEY**, Professor of Constitutional Law, First Amendment, Criminal Procedure, Law & Slavery, and Postmodern Legal Theory at Boston College Law School, **2004** Anthony Paul, Perfecting Slavery, Loyola University Chicago Law Journal, p. 228-231 </span>
<span class="Underline">Requests for equality and freedom will always…then, is that it is always already granted. </span>

<span class="Underline">**B. Dead Man Walkin’**</span>

<span class="Underline">**The colorline approach to racial problems perpetuates systems of exploitation that culminate in extermination.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FARLEY**, Professor of Constitutional Law, First Amendment, Criminal Procedure, Law & Slavery, and Postmodern Legal Theory at Boston College Law School, **1997** Anthony Paul, The Black Body as Fetish Object, 76 Oregon Law Review 457, p. 462-468</span>
<span class="Underline">1. Denial as Pleasure Race, the 20th century's…the latter and humiliation by the former.</span>

<span class="Underline">**C. That’ll be the Day ---** </span>

<span class="Underline">**Text: Vote negative to see the body as a created thing instead of as part of an order of power relationships which can always be subverted.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**This form of seeing begins the new project, allowing us to make a conscious choice about our actions and the actions of law. Those condemned by submission are condemned no longer to slavery, but to freedom.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**FARLEY**, Professor of Constitutional Law, First Amendment, Criminal Procedure, Law & Slavery, and Postmodern Legal Theory at Boston College Law School, **1997**</span>
<span class="Underline">Anthony Paul, The Black Body as Fetish Object, 76 Oregon Law Review 457, p. 531-2</span>
<span class="Underline">Our experience of pleasure in the destruction…objects, have begun a conversation with each other. </span>


==<span class="Underline">**Heidegger**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation is a form of instrumental technology that allows humans to control nature- leads to imperialism, and disconnection with being. Their logic is co-opted by the instrument.**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nadal 10** (Paul, Ph.D. candidate in the Department of Rhetoric at U.C. Berkeley. 7/12/10. "Heidegger’s Critique of Modern Technology: On 'The Question Concerning Technology.' "belate.wordpress.com/2010/07/12/heidegger-modern-technology/)</span>
<span class="Underline">*Gender modified </span>
<span class="Underline">All of the above is at play behind our common, colloquial…that is unfolded or unconcealed in the process.</span>

===<span class="Underline">**1NC Alt [v. Environment]**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The alternative is to embrace non-action in the face of the 1ac as a form of releasement from technology that allows for meditative coexistence with nature. Only our approach to nature solves environmental destruction. Their approach to global warming reduces the earth to an object for analysis, turning the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Housman and Flynn 11** (Benjamin H. Housman and Thomas R. Flynn “Cooling Down Global Warming: Revisiting Sartre and Heidegger on this Modern Day Challenge” The ‘Step Back’ as a ‘Step Towards’ Confronting Global April 14, 2011 MV)</span>
<span class="Underline">Heidegger directly speaks to this notion of a ‘step back’ in…in mind when he called for us to say ‘yes and no’ to technology. </span>

==<span class="Underline">**Security**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
**The affirmative’s construction of threats justifies endless warfare, serial policy failure, and denies the value to life**
**Burke, 7** (Senior Lecturer in International Relations at the University of New South Wales at Sydney, Anthony, Johns Hopkins University Press, Ontologies of War: Violence, Existence and Reason, Project Muse)
This essay develops a theory about the causes…peaceful and non-violent global rule of the political.

**The alternative is to vote negative to reject the 1ac’s securitized discourse in favor of epistemological and ontological questioning— that avoids error replication**
**Bruce and Cheeseman, 96** (Robert, Assoc. Prof in social sciences at Curtin university, and Graeme, Senior Lecturer at New South Wales, 1996, Discourses of Danger & Dread Frontiers, p. 5-9)
Indeed, they believe that debate will be furthered…direct [Australia’s] policy/analytical/military responses’.

==<span class="Underline">**Transportation Planning**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Transportation planning is not neutral – the affirmative sacrifices minority populations and perpetuates inequality** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Bullard 4** – Professor of Sociology @ Clark </span>
<span class="Underline">Robert D. Bullard, Professor of Sociology and Director of Environmental Justice Resource Center at Clark Atlanta University, Ph.D. in Sociology, "Highway Robbery," 2004, South End Press, page 3]//SH</span>
<span class="Underline">Transportation systems do not spring up out…and that transportation apartheid has been created.</span>

<span class="Underline">**The role of the ballot is to reject the affirmative’s violation of social justice**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Nieutvenhuis 10** – Professor of Management and Policy Studies</span>
<span class="Underline">Jan, “Social Justice in Education Today, Acta Academica, 43.1 </span>
<span class="Underline">Accept the geo-historical context of the struggle as…and enhances the freedom of others.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Voting negative is an act of criticism – it promotes reflection on transportation inequality and opens the black-box of transportation planning**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Willson 1**- Professor of Department of Urban and Regional Planning @ California State Polytechnic University (Richard, “Assessing communicative rationality as a transportation planning paradigm,” Transportation, http://www.uvm.edu/~transctr/pdf/willson_article.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">Purpose of planning. The purpose of transportation planning continues…process is an explicit part of the planning activity.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Virilio**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC K**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The drive to improve any manifestation of transportation infrastructure is also the drive to spatially dissolve politics --- this turns the case**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Virilio 97** – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, print, 81-83)</span>
<span class="Underline">But let us get back to Europe’s great engineering…instantaneously trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.</span>