[[toc]]
=<span class="Underline">**Topicality**</span>= 
==<span class="Underline">**Top Level**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**2NC Investment Education**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Funding education is the core of the topic**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Hecker, 10** — Director of Transportation Advocacy at the National Transportation Policy Project, a project of the Bipartisan Policy Center (JayEtta, “STRATEGIES TO BETTER LEVERAGE THE FEDERAL TRANSPORTATION DOLLAR AND PROMOTE INCREASED NON FEDERAL INVESTMENT”, 3/11/10, http://epw.senate.gov/public/index.cfm?FuseAction=Files.View&FileStore_id=209aba4f-ce26-49ec-a133-e028561efbb9) </span>
<span class="Underline">Recognizing that the financing mechanisms in…an efficient user-based funding mechanism.</span>

===2NC Participation Impact=== 
<span class="Underline">**Stale Debate – large topics encourage a race to topic generics – decimates the pedagogical benefits of debate --- and it independently kills participation --- link turns their offense**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Rowland, 84** (Robert C., Debate Coach – Baylor University, “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective, Ed. Parson, p. 53-54)</span>
<span class="Underline">The first major problem identified by the work group…some small schools to cancel their programs. </span>

===<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC T is a Voting Issue</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Don’t think topicality is some just some no nonsense argument – it cultivates an understanding of specific language which is the most portable real world skill – if we win our vision of debate is better you should vote negative – topicality is a stock issue and a resolutional burden.** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Olson, 6** - Professor of Rhetoric at the University of Wisconsin (Kathryn M. “The Epideictic Lens: The Unrealized Potential of Existing Argumentation Theory to Explain the Bush Administration’s Presentation of War with Iraq.” In Engaging Argument, edited by Patricia Riley, 18-28. Washington, D.C.: National Communication Association, 2006.</span>
<span class="Underline">So, I conclude with three of this reading's…these more transferable language analysis skills?</span>

==<span class="Underline">Agent CP's Good</span>== 
<span class="Underline">**Agent Counterplans are crucial in gaining topic specific education and effective solvency debates over the agent of action are equally important as the mandates of the plan**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Stoddard, 97** (Thomas, professor of law at New York University, 72 New York University Law Review 967, “BLEEDING HEART: REFLECTIONS ON USING THE LAW TO MAKE SOCIAL CHANGE”, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">Typically, the absence of any one of these factors…end, be as important as what it says.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Framework</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC FW</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**a) Resolved – reflects a legislative forum**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 98** (dictionary.com)</span>
<span class="Underline">Resolved: 5. To express, as an opinion or determination…be appropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>

<span class="Underline">**b) Substantially – it mandates reality and excludes imagination** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Wollman 93** (Circuit Judge, US Court of Appeals – 8th Circuit, Kansas City Power & Light Company, a Missouri corporation, Appellee, v. Ford Motor Credit Company, a Delaware corporation; McDonnell Douglas Finance Corporation, a Delaware corporation; HEI Investment Corp., a Hawaii corporation, Appellants, 995 F.2d 1422; 1993 U.S. App. LEXIS 13755, L/N)</span>
<span class="Underline">Instruction No. 10 was not given in isolation…determination is all that the contract required.</span>

<span class="Underline">**c) Should – indicates obligation or duty**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Compact Oxford English Dictionary, 8** (“should”, 2008, http://www.askoxford.com/concise_oed/should?view=uk)</span>
<span class="Underline">should modal verb (3rd sing. should) 1 used to…person) expressing a conjecture or hope.</span>

<span class="Underline">**This is the nexus question on this year’s topic – that’s critical to effective transportation policy making and generalized democratic engagement rather than a focus on the details of a policy** </span>
<span class="Underline">**Cook 11** – J.D. Candidate, Fordham University School of Law (Christopher T., “FUNDING PORT-RELATED INFRASTRUCTURE AND DEVELOPMENT: THE CURRENT DEBATE AND PROPOSED REFORM” 38 Fordham Urb. L.J. 1523, lexis)</span>
<span class="Underline">II. Addressing the Funding Problem There is…mechanism - federal, state, or local? n128</span>

<span class="Underline">**Status quo politics makes it try or die for topic education and our framework – several factors erode effective transportation policy – in round discussion of effective pragmatic solutions are vital to reverse trends and jumpstart beneficial reform**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lewis and Williams, 99** (David, Ph.D., President, Hickling Lewis Brod Economics, Inc., and Fred Laurence, Ph.D., United States Department of Transportation, “Policy and Planning as Public Choice Mass Transit in the United States,” Ashgate Publishing Company, pg. 27-33, http://www.fta.dot.gov/documents/Policy_and_Planning_as_Public_Choice.pdf, Tashma)</span>
<span class="Underline">A primary goal of the research reported in…have been impatient with difficult measurement. </span>

===<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Turns Case</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Turns the case – all value to the affirmative’s advocacy is lost if debate becomes impossible – extend Shively – and, any loss of fairness means voting aff does not change norms** </span>
<span class="Underline">Michael **Underwood**, summarizing Carl Hovland, communication at Yale University, **2000** (Psychology of Communication, www.cultsock.ndirect.co.uk/MUHome/cshtml/psy/hovland3.html) </span>
<span class="Underline">Whether or not you should include arguments for…persuasive with a more intelligent audience.</span>

===2NC Cede the Political=== 
<span class="Underline">**Focusing on the details and inner-workings of government policy-making is productive – critical approaches can’t resolve real world problems like poverty, racism and war** </span>
<span class="Underline">**McClean, 01** – Adjunct Professor of Philosophy, Molloy College, New York (David E., “The Cultural Left and the Limits of Social Hope,” Presented at the 2001 Annual Conference of the Society for the Advancement of American Philosophy, www.american-philosophy.org/archives/past_conference_programs/pc2001/Discussion%20papers/david_mcclean.htm)</span>
<span class="Underline">Yet for some reason, at least partially…world before howling for their overthrow commences. </span>

===<span style="text-decoration: none;">2NC Implementation Good</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Fairness – implementation is 90% of negative ground**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Elmore,** Professor of Public Policy at the University of Washington, **1980**</span>
<span class="Underline">(Political Science Quarterly, 79-80, p. 60)</span>
<span class="Underline">The emergence of implementation as a subject for…90 percent in the realm of implementation.</span>

<span class="Underline">**Policy relevance – debating about implementation is key to social change** </span>
<span class="Underline">Tom **Stoddard**, professor of law at NYU, 11-**1997** NYU Law Review</span>
<span class="Underline">E.M. Forster appended to the title page of…end, be as important as what it says.</span>
==<span class="Underline">Categories</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC T</span>=== 
**“Transportation” must have the primary purpose of moving people or goods**
**DoE 8** (United States Department of Energy – Energy Intense Indicators in the U.S., “Terminology and Definitions”, 4-22, http://www1.eere.energy.gov/ba/pba/intensityindicators/trend_definitions.html)
Transportation sector An end-use sector…of their primary use. (see the EIA glossary).

**“Infrastructure” contains multiple categories --- “transportation” is distinct from water and energy**
**Heintz 9** (James, Associate Research Professor and Associate Director – Political Economy Research Institute, et al., “How Infrastructure Investments Support the U.S. Economy: Employment, Productivity and Growth”, January, http://americanmanufacturing.org/files/peri_aam_finaljan16_new.pdf)
II. ASSESSMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE NEEDS FOR…about $6.2 billion annually over the next 25 years.

==<span class="Underline">Excludes Loan Guarantees</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Loan guarantees are distinct from investment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Weemba No Date** – Weemba is an online financial community that revolutionizes the way Borrowers and professional Lenders find each other and interact. http://blog.weemba.com/q-what-is-the-difference-between-an-investment-and-a-loan-can-i-find-investors-through-weemba/ *Weemba includes the following people: Constancio Larguia, graduated in International Business at Universidad de San Andrés in Argentina. Martin Arriola, Chief Operating Officer. Matthew Reid, Masters Degree in Accounting Information Systems and was licensed as a CPA in 1995. James Clavijo, Masters Degree in Accounting and obtained his CPA license from the state of Florida. Clara Olivera, Finance & Accounting. Sebastian Bellora, Chief Technology Officer.</span>
<span class="Underline">A: Loans must be repaid; investments can…a share in a business or other ownership.</span>

==<span class="Underline">Excludes Loan Guarantees (Private)</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC T</span>=== 
**Loans encourage private investment, that is distinct from federal investment** 
**The Boston Globe, 12** (“Lawmakers reach deal on roads, student loans”, http://articles.boston.com/2012-06-27/politics/32438903_1_subsidized-stafford-loans-student-loans-pipeline-approval/2)
The bill would give states more flexibility…encourage private investments in transportation projects.

==<span class="Underline">**Excludes Maintenance**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Maintenance is distinct from investment**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”, http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/)</span>
<span class="Underline">What has been neglected in all of the…that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Excludes Military**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s not topical – transportation infrastructure must be explicitly linked to public services – that excludes the military**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Fourie 6** – Chief Operating Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa (Johan, ECONOMIC INFRASTRUCTURE: A REVIEW OF DEFINITIONS, THEORY AND EMPIRICS, 9/06, South African Journal of Economics, Vol 74, Issue 3, Wiley Online Library)</span>
<span class="Underline">One way to define infrastructure is to…them as transportation modalities and utilities.</span>

<span class="Underline">**And, tying it solely to private economic activity creates the most fair and predictable stasis on the topic – inclusion of the military explodes the topic to allow a host of military, police and homeland security affs, including US military bases abroad – this has to be a voting issue**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Musick, 10** – Congressional Budget Office’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,”</span>
<span class="Underline">http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Although different definitions of “infrastructure”…Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).</span>

==<span class="Underline">Excludes Pipelines</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">1NC T</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s not topical – Pipelines are not transportation infrastructure – they are legally defined as energy infrastructure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**US Chamber of Commerce 10**</span>
<span class="Underline">United States Chamber of Commerce, “Transportation Performance Index – Summary Report”, http://www.uschamber.com/sites/default/files/lra/files/LRA_TPI%20_Summary_Report%20Final%20092110.pdf</span>
<span class="Underline">Step 1 – Definition: Transportation Infrastructure It is important to establish a…is considered an element of energy infrastructure.</span>
==<span class="Underline">**Excludes Ports**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The plan increases investment in ports – that’s not transportation infrastructure**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Orr and Keever 8** – is executive director at the Collaboratory for Research on Global Projects and teaches Global Project Finance to engineering, law school and MBA students also holds a PhD in Engineering from Stanford University Keever is a California admitted attorney in private practice. He has experience in private revenue bonds, foreign infrastructure planning with governmental participation in managed economies, and extensive corporate and joint venture experience, including joint ventures between foreign governmental agencies and private firms.. He holds an Ll.M (taxation) from George Washington University, a J.D. from the University of Virginia Law School, and a B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has served on the Collaboratory’s Executive Committee since 2002. (Ryan and Gregory “Enabling User-Fee Backed Transportation Finance in California” January 2008 http://crgp.stanford.edu/publications/working_papers/Orr_Keever_Enabling_User_Fee_Backed_Transportation_Finance_wp0041.pdf)//dm</span>
<span class="Underline">In arriving at these conclusions, this paper…use, and needs periodic replacement.</span>

==Excludes Security== 
===1NC T=== 
**The aff’s not topical --- transportation infrastructure excludes spending on security**
**Musick, 10** – CBO’s Microeconomic Studies Division (Nathan, “Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure,” http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/119xx/doc11940/11-17-infrastructure.pdf
Although different definitions of “infrastructure” exist…Army Corps of Engineers following Hurricane Katrina in 2005).
==Excludes Vehicle Fueling Infrastructure== 
===1NC T=== 
**The aff’s not topical – fueling infrastructure results in gas distribution which expands the topic beyond the scope of just transportation infrastructure**
**West Virginia Legal Code, No date** [Chapter 11, http://www.legis.state.wv.us/wvcode/code.cfm?chap=11&art=6D]
(e) "Qualified alternative fuel vehicle refueling…a private residence or private home.

**And, the aff must fall within a subsector of transportation – including gas distribution blows the lid off of the topic**
**FTSE, 12** [International Index of Stocks, FTSE OVERVIEW Source: FTSE Group 1 of 4 The FTSE Infrastructure Index Series: Defining Infrastructure, http://www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE_Infrastructure_Index_Series/Downloads/Infrastructure_overview.pdf]
Transportation Core Infrastructure – Companies that own…Pipelines; Water; Multiutilities; Conventional Electricity.
==Excludes Vehicles== 
===1NC T=== 
**Vehicles are a distinct field --- “infrastructure” is exclusively transportation networks**
**CSFT 6** (“Aboard Transportation”, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)
Transportation Transportation or transport is the carrying…railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.

==<span class="Underline">**In = In the United States**</span>== 
===**1NC T**=== 
**The aff’s not topical --- “in” means inclusion within --- “investment” must occur within the US**
**Random House 12** (Unabridged Dictionary, “in”, http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t)
In [in] Show IPA preposition, adverb…or limits): walking in the park.

==<span class="Underline">**In = Throughout**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Topical Affs must invest throughout the U.S.**</span>

<span class="Underline">**“In” means “throughout”**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Words and Phrases 8** (Permanent Edition, vol. 20a, p. 207)</span>
<span class="Underline">Colo. 1887. In the Act of 1861 providing that justices of the peace shall have jurisdiction “in” their respective counties to hear and determine all complaints, the word “in” should be construed to mean “throughout” such counties. Reynolds v. Larkin, 14, p. 114, 117, 10 Colo. 126.</span>

<span class="Underline">**“United States” means all of the states**</span>
<span class="Underline">**EPA 6** (EPA, US Environmental Protection Agency Terminology Reference System, 2-1-2006, http://iaspub.epa.gov/trs/trs_proc_qry.alphabet?p_term_nm=U)</span>
<span class="Underline">United States When used in the geographic sense, means all of the States. Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics : Commercial Chemical Control Rules Term Detail</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Increase = Net Increase**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s not topical – it’s not a net increase in an existing premium**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Buckley et al, 06** – attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">First, the court said that the ordinary…meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted). </span>

==<span class="Underline">**Substantially = In the Main**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**Substantially means in the main, including the essential part**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Words and Phrases, 2** (Words and Phrases Permanent Edition, “Substantially,” Volume 40B, p. 324-330 October 2002, Thomson West)</span>
<span class="Underline">Okla. 1911. “Substantially” means in…the material or essential part.</span>

<span class="Underline">**That means only road or rail Affs are topical**</span>
<span class="Underline">**UK DOT 7** (United Kingdom Department of Transport, “Funding Transport Infrastructure for Strategically Significant Developments”, http://assets.dft.gov.uk/publications/funding-transport-infrastructure-for-strategically-significant-developments/devconguideline.pdf)</span>
<span class="Underline">3.3 In the context of these guidelines, “transport…through a transport assessment.</span>

==<span class="Underline">**Effects**</span>== 
===<span class="Underline">**1NC T v. NIB**</span>=== 
<span class="Underline">**The aff’s not topical – the plan doesn’t mandate new spending on transportation – it merely claims to result in it** </span>

<span class="Underline">**“Increase” refers to a mandate, not a potential result**</span>
<span class="Underline">**HEFC 4** (Higher Education Funding Council, http://www.publications.parliament.uk/pa/jt200304/jtselect/jtchar/1 67/167we98.htm# n43)</span>
<span class="Underline">9.1 The Draft Bill creates an obligation on the principal…could be considered to be ever-increasing.</span>

<span class="Underline">**“Infrastructure investment” is spending in the sector**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Jimenez 95** (Immanuel, Appointed Director of Public Sector Evaluations – Independent Evaluation Group of the World Bank Group, “Human and Physical Infrastructure: Public Investment and Pricing Policies in Developing Countries”, Handbook of Development Economics, Vol. III, Ed. Behrman and Srinivasan, p. 2774) </span>
<span class="Underline">¶ 1. Introduction and overview¶ Almost by definition, infrastructure is…the basic theoretical concepts underlying them.</span>

**The plan isn’t transportation investment which requires infrastructure construction --- increasing loans through a bank isn’t topical** 
**Collenette 99** – Hon. David M. Collenette, P.C., M.P. Minister of Transportation of Canada Transportation in Canada 1999 annual reporthttp://publications.gc.ca/collections/Collection/T1-10-1999E.pdf
Whether made by business or government…on existing infrastructure, machinery and equipment.



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]