[[toc]]
=Counterplan= 
==<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Advantage</span>== 
===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Agriculture</span>**=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1NC CP -- Scientific Research</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in agricultural scientific research.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">The CP generates innovations that solves</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Lugar, 4</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – U.S. Senator – Indiana, (Richard, “Plant Power” Our Planet v. 14 n. 3, http://www.unep.org/OurPlanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">To meet the expected demand for food over the next 50…innovations that will be necessary to feed the world.</span>

===**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Arctic War</span>**=== 
====<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">1NC CP -- Hydrographic Surveying Scientific Partnerships</span>==== 
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Text: The United States federal government should</span>** **<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">enter into hydrographic surveying scientific partnerships over the Arctic region with Russia and China</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">No risk of an Arctic war now, but counterplan solves relations best anyway.</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Titley and St. John 10</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;"> – U.S. Navy Rear Admiral and Director of Climate Change Taskforce/Policy Fellow in Office of the Oceanographer of the Navy (David W. and Courtney C., “Arctic Security Considerations and the U.S. Navy’s Roadmap for the Arctic” < http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/e0734d9a-386e-4a2c-ba9d-86e7b290c57f/Arctic-Security-Considerations-and-the-U-S--navy-s>)</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">Currently there are overlapping, unresolved maritime…in the Arctic must be recognized and thoroughly assessed.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">**Competitiveness**</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Competitiveness-1NC CP -- Aerospace R&D Investment]]1NC CP -- Aerospace R&D Investment</span>==== 

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Text: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in the aerospace industry by increasing research and development tax breaks, industrial base investment, and engineering training programs.** </span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The CP bolsters US competitiveness and solves the impact to the advantage**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**NAW 10** (National Aerospace Week, “Aerospace and Defense: The Strength to Lift America,” September 18, 2010,[[http://www.nationalaerospaceweek.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/04/whitepaper.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">As the U.S. economy moves through uncertain times, America’s…representation of women and minorities among our numbers.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Economy]]**Economy**</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Economy-1NC CP -- R&D Tax Credit]]1NC CP -- R&D Tax Credit</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Text: The United States federal government should offer a tax break worth twenty percent of research and development spending to research consortia consisting of three or more companies, collaborative research at federal research laboratories, and universities.**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The CP generates massive innovation and increases investment – that solves the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Segal, 11** (PhD, Ira A. Lipman Senior Fellow for Counterterrorism and National Security Studies (6/6, Adam, Council on Foreign Relations, “U.S. Innovation and Economic Recovery,” [[http://www.cfr.org/economics/us-innovation-economic-recovery/p25198]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">R&D is the starting point for innovation--the discovery that,…but to ensure that it is cutting-edge and local.</span>

====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Economy-1NC CP -- Restoring America's Future]]1NC CP -- Restoring America's Future</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Text: The United States federal government should implement the Restoring America’s Future plan.**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Solves the economy**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Minarik 10** (Senior VP and Director of Research, Comm. for Economic Development Former Associate Director for Economic Policy, OMB Former Chief Economist, House Budget Committee, Dr. Joseph Minarik, “Restoring America’s Future Executive Summary,” Debt Reduction, November 2010)</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">We offer this plan as proof that a group of Republicans,…spending, including farm and government retirement programs. </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Oil Spills]]**Oil Spills**</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Oil Spills-1NC CP -- Montevecchi]]1NC CP -- Montevecchi</span>==== 
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Text: The United States federal government should</span>** **<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">adopt the recommendations of the Montevecchi evidence below to prevent and deter oil spills.</span>**

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The CP solves – monitors and prevents oil spills</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Montevecchi 11</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> – Doctorate, University Research Professor, Memorial University of Newfoundland. Contributions from Sierra club. (Bill, 2011 Provincial Election – Newfoundland and Labrador Environmental Policy Recommendations, August 29th, 2011, NLEN,[[http://www.nlen.ca/wp-content/uploads]]</span>Environmental-Policy-Recommendations-August-29-2011.pdf)
Issue: Lack of oversight on the environmental…by independent observers of all offshore platforms.

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Navy]]**Navy**</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Navy-1NC CP -- Multiplank]]1NC CP -- Multiplank</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The United States federal government should:**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**--provide continuous funding to maintain an end strength of 186,800 active-duty Marines**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**--implement crew rotation on single-crewed Navy ships**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**--substantially increase development and deployment of the Draco Unmanned Surface Vehicle System**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The CP allows for longer deployment and closes deployment gaps**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**CBO 7**, (Congressional Budget Office, Crew Rotation in the Navy: The Long-Term Effect on Forward Presence, A CBO Paper, October 2007,[[http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/87xx/doc8771/10-31-navy.pdf]] (Google Scholar)//AG</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Under the Navy’s current plan to use…recover from losses suffered in combat.</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The CP also resolves maintenance, savings, and delay costs**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Choi et al 6** – Director Cost and Acquisition Team Resource Analysis Division, (Jino, Improving Navy’s Buying Power Through Cost Savings, CAN Report, October 2006,[[http://www.cna.org/sites/default/files/research/D0014799.A2.pdf%20Improving%20Navy's%20Buying%20Power%20Through%20Cost%20Savings.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Recent literature suggests that crew rotation…excluding procurement, about $672 million per year.</span>

**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The CP bolsters naval capacity – Draco upgrade is best for a multitude of missions</span>**
**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">Beeson and Hillenbrand, No Date</span>**<span style="background-color: #ffffff;"> (Bradley Beeson, Program Manager, General Dynamics Robotic Systems, Christopher F. Hillenbrand, USV Customer Advocate, USW Weapons and Vehicle Product Area, “Development of the Anti-Submarine Warfare Unmanned Surface Vehicle (ASW USV) Engineering Developmental Model to Meet US Navy Needs,”[[http://www.gdrs.com/about/profile/pdfs/UDTPacific2006_4A3_.pdf]])</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">***note – MIW/ASW/SUW = Mine Warfare, Anti-Submarine Warfare, Surface Warfare</span>
<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">The GDRS USV Team is developing the Draco USV…relay payloads on unmanned aerial vehicles.</span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Trade]]**Trade**</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-Advantage CP's-Trade-1NC CP -- WTO Zeroing Anti-Dumping]]1NC CP -- WTO Zeroing Anti-Dumping</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Text: The United States federal government should provide compensation to the World Trade Organization for past zeroing violations and fully comply with rules for zeroing in antidumping investigations.**</span>

<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**The CP is key to resurrect US trade leadership and free trade**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Markheim 08** (Daniella Markheim, Senior Trade Policy Analyst in the Center for International Trade and Economics, Heritage Foundation, December 28, 2008, “Time to End ‘Zeroing’ in Trade Dumping Calculations,”[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/tradeandeconomicfreedom/wm2180.cfm]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">***zeroing is the tactic of zeroing out dumping calculations when a producer in another country charges a higher price in the U.S. market than in its home market or above its production costs</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">When the WTO finds in favor of a U.S. position in a…and end the practice of zeroing in anti-dumping investigations.</span>
==<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">States[[#Negative-Counterplan-Alaska CP -- v. Alaska Ports]]</span>== 
===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-States CP-Mechanisms]]<span class="Underline">Mechanisms</span></span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-States CP-Mechanisms-1NC -- Fuel Tax Indexing]]<span class="Underline">1NC -- Fuel Tax Indexing</span></span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Fuel tax indexing brings up tons of revenue for transportation funding**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**Morse, 11** (Derek, I-15 Mobility Alliance, November, 2011, “Funding and Financing,”[[http://www.i15alliance.org/pdfs/tech_memos/regional_mobility_improvement_strategies/I-15CSMP_Funding_Financing_FINAL.pdf]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">Nevada: Fuel Tax Indexing In 2008 the…populous region, is seeking similar legislative authority. </span>

===<span style="background-color: #ffffff; font-size: 13.333333015441895px;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-States CP-Solvency]]Solvency</span>=== 
====<span style="background-color: #ffffff;">[[#Negative-Counterplan-States CP-Solvency-1NC -- HSR]]1NC -- HSR</span>==== 
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**States solve HSR the best**</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">**OPA, 3** (Office of Public Affairs – US Department of Transportation – FACT SHEET , The Passenger Rail Investment Reform Act of 2003 – [[http://www.dot.gov/affairs/Passenger%20Rail%20Fact%20Sheet.htm]])</span>
<span class="Underline" style="background-color: #ffffff;">* The Administration believes that states, not Amtrak, are best…to air and highway travel in some corridors.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]