[[toc]]
=Round One vs. GBN HK--Port Dredging= 

==Elections DA== 

Obama will win but it’s super close because of independents
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Cohn 9-27</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> (Nate, election analyst for The New Republic. “Daily Breakdown: Obama Near His Ceiling?” http://www.tnr.com/blog/electionate/107815/daily-breakdown-obama-near-his-ceiling)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Obama’s lead in the battleground states is .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;"> But they do suggest he is very well positioned heading into the heart of the campaign.</span>

Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular and swings the election
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, ..... that would funnel private investor (not taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

Romney election would destroy US-China relations which are key to warming and the global economy
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Traub 12 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">(James, journalist specializing in foreign affairs, writes “Terms of Engagement,” a weekly column on ForeignPolicy.com, “Foreign Affairs: The “more enemies, fewer friends” doctrine, Washington Monthly, January/February, [[http://www.washingtonmonthly.com/magazine/january_february_2012/features/foreign_affairs034475.php?page=1]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">The Republicans tend to paint themselves as .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Treating the world’s premier rising power like the Soviet Union in the 1960s would be a mistake of historic proportions</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">.</span>

Global warming leads to extinction and destroys ports and infrastructure
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Oliver </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Tickell</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, Climate Researcher, 8/11/20</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">08</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">, On a planet 4C hotter, all we can prepare for is extinction, The Guardian, Proquest</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">We need to get prepared for four degrees of global warming, Bob Watson told the .....</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">could propel us towards a</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 8px;">similar</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">hothouse Earth.</span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">T--Infrastructure Investment</span>== 

Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset, but not for minor remodeling
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">DOE, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> – US department of Education (“Clarifying Guidance on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Section 1512 Quarterly Reporting”, American Recovery and reinvestment Act, www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/.../guidance-1512-quarterly-reporting.doc)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">For the purposes of Section 1512 reporting, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">//.....//</span>//<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">infrastructure investment does not include “minor remodeling</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">” as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 77.1(c). </span>

And Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Lemer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">What has been neglected</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';"> in all of the analyses ..... that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect. </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">Masculinity K</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Maritime is inherently masculine, </span>locking us into gender roles
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Ransley 5 </span>
Jesse, writer for World Archaeology, “Boats Are for Boys: Queering Maritime Archaeology” World Archaeology, 37(4) p.621-629. Noparstak)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Not surprisingly then, the practice of </span>**__maritime__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> archaeology ....., largely untapped source of different data about the past. </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Masculinity as the foundation of the nation-state makes all warfare inevitable as the roles in warfare and post-conflict management are self-perpetuating in order for the fraternal community to sustain itself </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Handrahan, 2K1</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Lori M., International Centre of Gender Studies, Oxford, Conflict, Gender, Ethnicity and Post-Conflict Reconstruction, //Security Dialogue// 35.4)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Benedict Anderson, the well-known academic expert on .....</span>**__the ‘selfless, communal experience of brotherhood, which is the model of civic virtue’ is unsustainable without war__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Benton, 1998: 43). </span>**__War makes the man__**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The alternative is to reformulate the foundation of the topic to endorse a larger project of social and cultural geographies of mobility</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Reformulating the topic area will create larger social and cultural projects as well as a more systematic theory of gender as a category in social life </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Law 99</span> (Robin, Department of Geography, University of Otago New Zealand, "Progress in Human Geography", [[http://phg.sagepub.com/content/23/4/567.full.pdf]].Noparstak)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To use a spatial metaphor, the geography of gender .....These two moves form the basis of the next two sections of this article. </span>

==QTR CP== 

Text – the Department of Energy should alter the Quadrennial Technology Review to include a recommendation to substantially increase its investment in expedited port transportation infrastructure projects in the United States, including transportation infrastructure surrounding ports.

Competes---the CP’s policy statement is not legally binding---it doesn’t enact the plan, it simply recommends its mandates
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis n110 E.g., Consol Edison Co of New York v. FERC, 315 F.3d 316, 323 (D.C. Cir 2003)
"Policy statements"//<span style="font-size: 16px;">differ</span>//from substantive rules that .....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Nonlegislative Rules and the Administrative Open Mind, 41 DUKE L J 1497, 1503 (1992).</span>


CP solves the aff – changes future budget decisions.
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Tollefson -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Jeff Tollefson, DOE releases first Quadrennial Technology Review, September 27, 2011, http://blogs.nature.com/news/2011/09/doe_releases_first_quadrennial_1.html)</span>
<span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> US Department of Energy (</span><span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">DOE) .....</span> <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">permanent group within the DOE that can focus on energy markets, business, policy analysis and, most intriguingly, social sciences.</span>

Solves the Case---the practical result is the same as binding law---the policy statement sends the signal of the plan and causes agencies to implement it
James <span style="font-size: 13.3333px;">Hunnicutt 99,</span> J.D., Boston College Law School, December 1999, “NOTE: Another Reason to Reform the Federal Regulatory System: Agencies' Treating Nonlegislative Rules as Binding Law,” Boston College Law Review, 41 B.C. L. Rev 153, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Depending on whether a rule is adopted with .....</span> or<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> they </span>have//already fought//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the rule</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in court </span>and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> have</span>//given up//on<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the </span>appeals<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> process.</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> n156</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">2NR</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">CP</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Elections DA</span>

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Round Three vs. Heritage Hall CC--Inland Waterways</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Elections DA (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Masculinity K (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">QTR CP (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">T--Infrastructure Investment (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Oil DA</span>== 


Oil Prices are high and on the rise

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Washington Post 9/14</span> (“Oil prices hit four-month high”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/oil-prices-hit-four-month-high/2012/09/14/b09829ca-fe9f-11e1-b153-218509a954e1_story.html]], 9/14/12)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Oil prices hit their highest levels in more than four months .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">But in the outside world, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the market is tight as a drum</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>



Status quo U.S. transportation is key to sustained demand for oil – the plan reduces consumption

**WC 8**<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> (World Crisis news service,“World Oil Crisis: Driving forces, Impact and Effects,” http://www.world-crisis.net/oil-crisis.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">The demand side of Peak oil is concerned with the consumption of oil over time,.....from economic growth rates of over 10 percent for 5 years in a row. </span>




Russia’s economy RELIES on these prices

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GM 9/15</span> (Globe and Mail news service, “For Russia, high energy prices a necessity, not a luxury”, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/international-business/european-business/for-russia-high-energy-prices-a-necessity-not-a-luxury/article4546314/?service=mobile]], 9/15/12)

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Kremlin does not take political dissent with g..... </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">every $10 decline in the price of oil reduces the Russian government’s revenues by </span>//$20-billion//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>



Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, historically</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic health and political stability are intertwined</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> ..... that the financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">2NR</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">T--Infrastructure Investment</span>


=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Round Six vs. River Hill CL--Climate Adaptation</span>= 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Elections DA</span>== 

Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Alden 12</span> (Edward, Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations. “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6-14-12, CFR, [[http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]]]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Americans understood this once upon a time, .....money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>



Obama win key to US-Russia relations – Romney’s agenda is belligerent and controversial.

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Reichardt 12</span> (Adam is the Managing Editor of New Eastern Europe, “Considering Russia in the Voting Booth,” New Eastern Europe, 7/9/2012, http://www.neweasterneurope.eu/node/382)

<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Obama’s policy towards Russia is easier to .....</span><span class="TitleChar"> suspicious, and perhaps even hostile, to the intentions of American foreign policy.</span>



RELATIONS ARE KEY TO THE RUSSIAN ECONOMY WHICH IS ALSO KEY TO THE U.S. ECONOMY

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Diplomat 7</span> (DIPLOMAT, A RUSSIAN MAGAZINE, “US RUSSIAN MUTUAL RELATIONS: FIVE MAJOR AREAS” JUNE 2007)

A <span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">third </span>area for cooperation is ..... including transparency and rule of law.


Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, historically</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic health and .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> financial impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>


==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">QTR CP (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">T--Infrastructure Investment (Round One)</span>== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 13.3333px;">Warming CP</span>== 


**Text: The United States Federal Government should fertilize the North Pacific and Southern Oceans with ferrous sulphate.**



**CP solves warming by taking CO2 out of the atmosphere**

**Parry, 7/18/12** – LiveScience senior staff writer (Wynne, July 18, 2012, “Could Fertilizing the Oceans Reduce Global Warming?,” http://www.livescience.com/21684-geoengineering-iron-fertilization-climate.html, Hensel)

__Some hope fertilizing tiny, floating plants .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">nearly all of it made up of glass-walled diatoms — sank below, 3,280 feet (1,000 m)</span>

==<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">2NR</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">QTR CP</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Election DA</span>

=<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">QTR CP Cites (Request of River Hill)</span>= 


==Solvency== 
The QTR will shape future policies – it’s a guide to budget planners.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Science Business -11</span>(DoE Science Review Boosts Transport, Grid, Quicker Payoffs, September 27, 2011, http://sciencebusiness.technewslit.com/?p=6226)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> U.S. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Department of Energy</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (DoE) today </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span>//should serve as a guide for annual budget planners//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

And, priority - Inclusion in the QTR causes policy to get focused on and developed first.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koonin -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Statement of Steven E. Koonin, Under Secretary for Science, U.S. Department of Energy, Before the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources United States Senate, November 15, 2011 , http://www.energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=46e0d57d-7a61-4aa1-afcf-be399658c694)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As Secretary Chu noted in his introduction to the QTR, ….. according to the status and significance of the technology. </span>

==Delay== 

Even if there’s delay --- anticipatory changes solve immediately
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Posner 8 (</span>Eric A., Professor of Law – University of Chicago, and Jacob E. Gersen, Assistant Professor of Law – University of Chicago, “Soft Law: Lessons from Congressional Practice”, Stanford Law Review, December, 61 Stan. L. Rev. 573, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To make the point crisper, </span>compare a<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> …..</span>//statute does not//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> yet </span>//have legal effect//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. <span style="color: #000000; text-decoration: none;">[[@http://www.lexis.com/research/retrieve?_m=b400d0bdaff54cf6c597ce406e5ce7ee&csvc=bl&cform=searchForm&_fmtstr=FULL&docnum=1&_startdoc=1&wchp=dGLbVzS-zSkAb&_md5=fd110ee6b20f6b7074b902455e1a1dbf#n105|105]]</span></span>

==Certainty== 

Certainty is nonsense --- the Aff can’t solve it
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Posner 8</span> (Eric A., Professor of Law – University of Chicago, and Jacob E. Gersen, Assistant Professor of Law – University of Chicago, “Soft Law: Lessons from Congressional Practice”, Stanford Law Review, December, 61 Stan. L. Rev. 573, Lexis)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Congress seeks to influence public behavior, …..</span>//it is important//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">to see that </span>//we are dealing only with probabilities//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>

==Solves Elections== 
The DOE is widely popular – cp causes massive support for the plan.
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koonin -11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(Statement of Steven E. Koonin, Under Secretary for Science, U.S. Department of Energy, Before the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources United States Senate, November 15, 2011 , http://www.energy.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/files/serve?File_id=46e0d57d-7a61-4aa1-afcf-be399658c694)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">As a result of the Review, we found that looking just at DOE: • ….. applied social science into its technology programs to better inform and support the Department’s investments. </span>

==Perm Rec and Plan== 
Severance---if the policy statement process is genuine and independent then the plan isn’t certain to be done until the end of the process---severs ‘should’ which requires immediacy
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Summers 94</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';"> - Justice, Supreme Court of Oklahoma, 11-8-1994, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant,” online: http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Certain </span>contexts mandate a <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">…..</span><span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;"> include the requested segment); State v. Rack, 318 S.W.2d 211, 215 (Mo. 1958) ("should" would mean the same as "shall" or "must" when used in an instruction to the jury which tells the triers they "should disregard false testimony").</span>

==Perm CP== 
The plan and the CP are categorically different---the distinction’s legally significant
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The question of application is complicated because </span>…..obey these pronouncements as well as legislative rules unless a deviation can be justified<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. n112</span>

Err neg---this area of law is confusing---the aff and their authors probably get it wrong
Charles H. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Koch 5</span>, the Dudley W. Woodbridge Professor of Law, William and Mary School of Law, Spring 2005, “Policymaking by the Administrative Judiciary,” Alabama Law Review, 56 Ala. L. Rev. 693, p. lexis
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Administrative agencies adjudicate massive numbers of individual disputes, far exceeding the number resolved by courts. Generally, administrative adjudications determine the individual rights and duties created through an administrative program. n1 Similar to the judicial process, </span>…..<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> ultimately </span>reach beyond the implications of<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> these </span>studies<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>
Policy statements are advisory and concern the likely trajectory of future agency action---they don’t bind anyone in the present
Richard E. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Levy 11,</span> the J.B. Smith Distinguished Professor of Constitutional Law, University of Kansas, and Robert L. Glicksman, the J.B. and Maurice C. Shapiro Professor of Environmental Law, The George Washington University Law School, February 2011, “Agency-Specific Precedents,” Texas Law Review, 89 Tex. L. Rev. 499, p. lexis
Policy statements are<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> "statements </span>issued by …..<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and courts will not treat the rule as binding. n110</span>
==Perm Both== 


Lots of ground exists---the CP addresses a key legal question
Connor N. <span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Raso 10</span>, J.D., Yale Law School, January 2010, “Note: Strategic or Sincere? Analyzing Agency Use of Guidance Documents,” The Yale Law Journal, 119 Yale L.J. 782, p. lexis
//Scholars// and //policymakers//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> alike </span>…<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> data to determine whether agencies commonly issue guidance to avoid the notice and comment process.</span>