[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
**<span class="tagChar">We fear abjection.</span>**
<span class="tagChar">**Kristeva 82**(</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">JULIA KRISTEVA is a </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bulgarians|Bulgarian]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">-</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/France|French]] [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philosopher|philosopher]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Literary_critic|literary critic]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychoanalysis|psychoanalyst]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sociologist|sociologist]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/French_feminist|feminist]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and, most recently, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Novelist|novelist]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, She is now a Professor at the </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/University_Paris_Diderot|University Paris Diderot]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> , POWERS OF HORROR An Essay on Abjection (as translated by LEON S. ROUDIEZ) Approaching Abjection pg. 3-4,</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">1982)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">There looms within... of my culture.</span>

**We now present you with something abject, the extraterrestrial; Because the extra-terrestrial may take on a potentially infinite number of physical forms, it is a grotesque being which carries with it the notion that we live in an ever-changing organic world. This is necessary to challenge the dominant psychic structures created by the ego.**
**<span class="underline">Csicsery-Ronay 02 </span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Author: Istvan Csicsery-Ronay, Jr. “On the Grotesque in Science Fiction. Source: Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 29, No. 1 (Mar., 2002), pp. 71-99 Published by: SF-TH Inc Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/4241045 )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The sexiest category... or subtle forms.</span>

**As depicted in John Carpenters horror movie “The Thing” Confrontation with the infinitely changing extraterrestrial invokes an extreme horror upon the self which can only be overcome by becoming the very thing which we fear.**

**Continued fear of the alien will only serve to reinforce the structures of heirarchal subordination which is the basis for all suffering, however, becoming the alien and accepting that it, and ourselves, are part of a larger chaotic world allows us to access the semiotic chora, or “good abjection” which propels all productive cultural activity and informs all valuable life experiences.**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">White 93</span>**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> (Eric White is an associate professor of English at university of Colorado at Boulder, with A PhD in rhetoric at University of Cal Berkely,</span><span style="font-family: Code,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">The Erotics of Becoming: Xenogenesis and "The Thing", Source: Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 20, No. 3 (Nov., 1993), pp. 394-408 Published by: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">SF-TH Inc</span><span style="font-family: Code,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Stable URL: </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">http://www.jstor.org/stable/4240279 .</span><span style="font-family: Code,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Accessed: 07/08/2011 22:23</span>

<span style="font-family: Code,sans-serif; font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">After I had... as "becoming other."</span>

**My partner Eric and I affirm that we should become extra-terrestrial.**

**<span class="tagChar">This becoming is not a method by which to imitate aliens or to swap identities for a new ones, rather what we advocate is an open state of being which allows us to tear down molar identities, these are the fixed structures which are at the root of all exclusionary logic. </span>**

**<span class="tagChar">In opposition to the fixed molar identities, the becoming which we advocate creates molecular identities. Since these molecular identities follow no set path, they open up space to a universe of voices which can oppose hierarchal structures such as the human-animal binary </span>**
**<span class="tagChar">Vint 05</span>**<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;"> (Sherryl, Assistant Professor of English at Brock University, Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 32, No. 2, Becoming Other: Animals, Kinship and Butler’s “Clay’s Ark”, July 2005)</span>

**Thus the reality of becoming doesn’t merely tear down a single molar structure, by opening us up to a universe of molecular identities, a becoming creates a line of flight.**

**In opposition to the fixed structures created by molar identities, a line of flight has no set course or path, and thus enables us to explore an infinite number of ways to be.**
<span class="tagChar">Deleuze and Guattari 80</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(French Sorcerers, A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and schizophrenia, Becoming-Intense, Becoming-Animal, Becoming-Imperceptible ..., Pg. 241-243)</span>

<span style="color: #333333; font-family: Tahoma,sans-serif; font-size: 8.5pt;">Exclusive importance should... of their becomings).</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The distinctions generated between self and other, manifest most prominently in the distinction between human and animal, are at the root of all conflict and subordination in human society. The biopolitics that defines our era is hinged upon this ethical exclusion and upholds structures of racism, sexism, and hierarchy.</span>**

<span class="tagChar">Vint in 2005</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Sherryl, Assistant Professor of English at Brock University, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 32, No. 2,</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> //Becoming Other: Animals, Kinship and Butler’s “Clay’s Ark”,// July 2005)</span>

Much recent political... and sexist discourse.

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Via the logic of becoming, we can eliminate these binaries. By granting the animal the privileged status of the self, or rather, removing ethical status entirely from the question of ethics we allow ethical thought itself to become other. This frees us to postulate a new ethic founded outside of the juridico-political power grid. </span><span class="tagChar">Vint in 2005</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Sherryl, Assistant Professor of English at Brock University, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Science Fiction Studies, Vol. 32, No. 2,</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;"> //Becoming Other: Animals, Kinship and Butler’s “Clay’s Ark”,// July 2005) Deleuze and Guattari... to revisioning ethics.</span>=== 

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">This Deleuzo-Guattarian Will to Love is more than a personal feeling, it is an affect of the destruction of the molar self. It is a love for all things in the Universe, and thus it frees desire and generates infinite becomings. Only through this distinct form of love can oppression in all forms be eliminated.</span>=== 
<span class="cite">Lawlor in 2008 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Leonard, Professor of Philosophy at Penn State University, __Substance, Issue 117,__ //Following the Rats: Becoming-Animal in Deleuze and Guattari)//</span>

The condition of... motive for change.

**<span class="cite">The Aff is not a utopian action, it is a rhetoric of hope. A vote for the affirmative does not will into existence a revolution against subordination. Voting affirmative acknowledges the potential of our methodology to move towards a future, always at the edge of our capabilities, in which all demonization would be overwhelmed by love. This hoping is distinct from calculative planning that cannot grapple with the ultimate ethic: The Will to Love.</span>**
<span class="cite">Schrag in 2006 </span><span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Calvin O., Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at Purdue University, __International Journal for Philosophy of Religion, Vol 60,__ //Otherness and the Problem of Evil: How Does That Which Is Other Become Evil?,// December 2006)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Truth to tell... of human misery.</span>

=Negative= 
===__DNG 1NC GONZAGA (all we ran)__=== 

**DEBATE**

**4:00 (3:00 without Conley)**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Fiat is a hopeless illusion. Regardless of how we come to understand US policy and which aff case wins the most rounds at the end of the day policy debate is little more than a symbolic game. You signing the ballot for a particular argument doesn’t transfer into real US policy and afterwards we are left with nothing.</span>**

**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our arguments may not effect US policy but they do have implications in the real world of human interactivity. The question coming out of this round shouldn’t be of what we would do if we owned NASA but should be of how each individual advances their unique prospective on the world. Failing to do this will only result In continued oppression from those in power</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Spanos 2k4</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;">(William Spanos in Joe Millers’ book Cross-ex (pg. 467) 2004; google it)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dear Joe MIller,... ... and his neocon policy makers is leading. </span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Constant focus on unrealistic questions of space policy trade off with focus on our individual responsibility in the world. This form of top-down political engagement teaches us to view politics as something detached from our individual action and destroys the unique opportunity debate gives us to understand and challenge war and violence as they develop at the micro-level</span>**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Kappeler 95</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;"> (Susanne, //The Will to Violence: The politics of personal behavior,// Pg. 10-11)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">Yet our insight... </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the structures and the values of war and violence.</span>

**By viewing all issues in the debate round as hypothetical the affirmative locks us into the oppressive modes of the status quo. Debate should be a polyvocal activity that encourages us to think and know in new ways to combat fascist structures which dominate our existence, however the affirmatives continued use of fiat and calculative planning surrender debate, trapping us into opression**
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Foucault, 72</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[Anti-Oedipus pg. xiii-iv]</span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">During the years 1945-1965....</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Do not become enamored of power.</span>


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DEATH</span>

===1. Their view of life is based on an egotistical interpretation of what it means to be human - we are nothing more than a particular arrangement of carbon and water, and the war they prevent is nothing more than a rearrangement of that matter. Death is not the end of a properly functioning universe, rather it is a constant occurrence within desiring machines.=== 
===This an offensive reason to vote them down: Their understanding of death locks us into a dualistic mode of thought which privileges the symbolic death of a human over the desiring machines which are the basis for all beauty in the human experience. Their subjugation of desiring machines is fascist and only by escaping this dualistic idea of life and death can we truly begin living.=== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Anti-Oedipus, 330-39, Murray</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">But it seems that things are becoming very obscure,...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the rights of anti-production.</span>


==Space K== 
===1. The Universe is infinitely beyond our comprehension. It is explosions of light in all directions at an impossible speed so that light is infinitude and illuminates the finite portions of the Universe that we are capable of witnessing. In this sense, light manifests Otherness in that it creates exterior reality that we confront, and conceals those that we do not. Looking at the Universe in its totality, the subject is utterly lost, immersed in the illuminations and withholdings of light.=== 

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Grandy 2001 (David; Professor of Philosophy at BYU, “The Otherness of Light: Einstein and Levinas.” </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">[[http://pmc.iath.virginia.edu/text-only/issue.901/12.1grandy.txt]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> While </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">light's ambiguity erodes......</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">know, and imagine other things.</span>


===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">3. </span>For Policy Affs: The Aff fails to embrace this chaos in their confrontation with the Universe. They send humans and human technology into space to co-opt it for human means, to manufacture a version of space safely in the grasp of human power. By approaching space with intentions governed by the self, they fail to recognize the universe in its totality - insuring that we can only find ourselves in space, confined to the conundrums of our subjectivity.=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 80 (French Sorcerers, A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and schizophrenia, Becoming-Intense, Becoming-Animal, Becoming-Imperceptible ..., Pg. 395)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Of course, there are points,...Virilio invokes the beginnings of subterranean habitation in the "mineral layer," which can take on very diverse values.) </span>

===3. This assault on the chaos of space generates fascism and control. They go to space and seek to turn it into a tool for humanity, but in the process they destroy the potential for a wondrous encounter with the unknown. There is no love in their space policy/discussion, only the desire for power. If there is anything for us in space, it cannot be //for us.// We should embrace the chaos of the Universe and plunge forth into nothingness.=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 80 (French Sorcerers, A Thousand Plateaus: Capitalism and schizophrenia, Becoming-Intense, Becoming-Animal, Becoming-Imperceptible ..., Pg. 395)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The classical image of thought,..... a double becoming, rather than the attribute of a Subject and the representation of a Whole.</span>



**ALT TEXT: Our alternative is to engage in a politics of rhizomatics.**

**To us the focus of this debate round has been desire. Rooting from the smallest level within all things desires forms the world around us, the way we think, the way we feel, and the way we act.**

**Through the different planes in this speech we’ve encountered a number of ways in which desire can either be freed or controlled. There is a distinction between types of planes- The smooth ones in which desire moves freely in all directions and the striated ones, ones in which desire is controlled and organized in a certain way by institutions who wish to control it.**

**In order to ensure desire can operate freely we would like to engage you in a politics of rhizomatics. Always moving in opposition to striated space, the rhizome smooths out space, freeing desire from the fascist control imposed upon it.**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conley in 2006</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In their dialogues and collaborations,... the structure of the family into which he had been born (Deleuze and Guattari 1987: 14).</span>

==This is what we are doing right here and now in this debate round- Striated space manifests itself in our minds and it is Acts of language such as this speech that allow us to fight back. Paving the path for revolution== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Conley in 2006</span> <span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 7pt;"> (Verena Andermatt, professor of literature at Harvard, “Borderlines; Deleuze and the Contemporary World, 95-100)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;"> Here </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Deleuze and Guattari have faith in ‘subjects’... ...</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> all identity is undone.</span>

==**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Our arguments are the pre-requisite to meaningful action: The only way to guarantee something is effective is to first account for the desires involved. Taking political action before considering desire would be like acting in a play before reading the script and even if the affirmative has good parts it inevitably leads more fascism behing</span>**== 
**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Deleuze and Guattari 1972</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">, Anti-Oedipus, 347-8</span>

**__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Not only can the libidinal investment of the social field interfere with the investment of interest,... ...</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> machine of desire.</span>
[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]