=[[toc]]= 
=Navy Power Bad= 
==1NC China War== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Naval reliance causes draw in china war and east Asian arms race – escalates causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieven, 2012</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Anatol, professor in the War Studies Department of King’s College London and a senior fellow of the New America Foundation in Washington, “Avoiding a U.S.-China War,” The New York Times, 6/12/2012, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/13/opinion/avoiding-a-us-china-war.html?_r=0]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Relations between the United States and China are on a course that may one day </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">book brings out with chilling force, the alternatives may well be catastrophic.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
==2NC China War Overview== 
**D. Liven evidence says it disrupts maritime communication – specifically ruins ties and turns all war scenarios**
Peele 97 (Reynolds B., Lieutenant, USMC, The Importance of Maritime Chokepoints, Parameters, Summer)

There are presently six significant regional economic and military concerns that require constant strategic focus
AND
key SLOCs to ensure that US security and economic interests can be protected.

**Turns trade impacts**
Sokolsky 2K (Richard, Distinguished Research Fellow @ Institute for National Strategic Studies, The Role of Southeast Asia in U.S. Strategy Toward China, [[http://www.rand.org/publications/MR/MR1170/MR1170.ch2.pdf]])

Southeast Asia lies at the intersection of two of the world’s most heavily traveled sea
AND
lanes and retain the capability to deny freedom of operation to potential adversaries.

**Collapses US econ**
Johnson 01 – President of the Japan Policy Research Institute and Professor Emeritus at the University of California-San Diego, Contributor to the Third World Traveler and Writer for the Nation Magazine (Chalmers, "Time to Bring the Troops Home", The Nation Magazine, May 14th 2001, May 5th 2010, http://www.thirdworldtraveler.com/Imperialism_Neocolonialism/Bring_Troops_Home.html, KONTOPOULOS)

China is another matter. No sane figure in the Pentagon wants a war with
AND
-deployed US forces on China's borders have- virtually no deterrent effect.

**Hegemony fuels interventionism in peripheral areas**
Walt 11 – Stephen M. Walt is the Robert and Renée Belfer professor of international relations at Harvard University. [6/9/11, [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/06/09/decade_of_decadence]]]

Third, this latest little war leads me to think we need a new term
AND
on a very small number of Very Big Issues (like the economy).

**Continuous interventions cause extinction**
Valenzeula 03 Author, Activist
[Manuel “Perpetual War, Perpetual Terror” November 27th ([[http://www.dissidentvoice.org/Articles9/Valenzuela_Perpetual-War-Terror.htm]])]

The Pentagon is the Department of War, not Defense. It is in business
AND
This can be seen in the world’s perception and treatment of us today.
==SCS Impact== 
**Increase US regional battles cause SCS conflict – Chinese nationalism means conflict is inevitable**
Spitzer, 2012 (Kirk, veteran journalist and defense correspondent, based in Tokyo, “The South China Sea: From Bad to Worse,” Time, 7/15/2012, [[http://nation.time.com/2012/07/15/the-south-china-sea-from-bad-to-worse/]])

What China is saying is, ‘We have this historic claim to the South
AND
mile limits – assuming that those claims are internationally recognized to begin with. 


**Squo policies allow china to island hop effectively – US draw in makes extinction inevitable**
Wesley, 2012 (Dr. Michael, PhD, former Executive Director of the Lowy Institute for International Policy and Professor of International Relations, “WHAT'S AT STAKE IN THE SOUTH CHINA SEA?”, The Lowy Institute for International Policy, [[http://www.lowyinstitute.org/publications/whats-stake-south-china-sea]])

It is in the South China Sea that Southeast Asia’s anxieties about China overlap with
AND
concession could signal its acceptance of China’s claims in the South China Sea.

==Senkaku Impact== 
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Err negative – ur impacts are based on emperics – Increasing naval power would result in Senkaku war</span>**
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ying-Chuan, 10/20/2012</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Fu, r</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">etired lieutenant general and standing director of the Society for Strategic Studies, ROC, “PLA maneuvers show failure of US deterrent,” Want China Times, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.wantchinatimes.com/news-subclass-cnt.aspx?id=20121020000087&cid=1703]]</span><span style="background-color: white; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The long-standing dispute over the islands between China and Taiwan</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, which refer </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Japan alliance</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and the incident would become an issue of far greater proportions.</span>

==AT: Transition War== 
**US decline leads to retrenchment – sustains alliances and decreases conflict**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">MacDonald and Parent, Assistant Profs, 2011</span>
Paul, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Williams College, Joseph, Assistant Professor of Political Science at the University of Miami, “Graceful Decline?,” International Security, Vol. 35, No. 4 (Spring 2011), Pg. 41-43, [[http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/pdf/10.1162/ISEC_a_00034]]

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Contrary to these predictions, our analysis suggests some grounds for optimism. </span>**__Based on__** 
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">exacerbate U.S. grand strategic problems and risk unnecessary clashes. 101 </span>


=India Relations Bad= 
==Paki Collapse== 
US-India relations causes a Pakistan coup and nuclear war
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington Post</span>** 7-20-**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">05 (</span>**http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2005/07/19/AR2005071902041.html)
Now consider the risks in the administration's gamble. <span class="CardtextChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pakistan</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">, India's neighbor and rival</span>
<span class="CardtextChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>__</span>
<span class="CardtextChar">__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">be weighed against the potential downside of a jihad-minded nuclear Pakistan.</span>__</span>



==Paki Relations== 
A. US-India relations destroy it
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Sowell 05</span>
Kirk H. Sowell, specialist in Middle Eastern Affairs, July 20, 2005
[“The India Nuclear Deal” [[http://www.arabworldanalysis.com/blog/archives/2005/07/the_india_nucle.html]]]
The move could mark a fundamental realignment of U.S. relations in South
AND
of power in favor of the free world, would have several bases:
B. Pakistan is key to solve global terrorism
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lugar 04</span>
Richard Lugar, Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Federal News Service, July 14, 2004 [Hearing of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, lexis]
The Foreign Relations Committee meets today for an important discussion on __Pakistan, a key__
__AND__
__States should support reforms and contribute to the strengthening of Pakistani__ civil __institutions.__
C. Extinction
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mohamed Sid-Ahmed, Al-Ahram Weekly political analyst, 2004</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Al-Ahram Weekly, "Extinction!" 8/26, no. 705, http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2004/705/op5.htm]</span>
__What would be the consequences of a nuclear attack by terrorists?__ Even if it
AND
__When **nuclear pollution infects the whole planet, we will all be losers.**__

==__Arms Race__== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">A. US-India Relations spark Asian arms race</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Basrur 02</span>**
Dr. Rajesh M. Basrur, Felbright Fellow at Univ of Illinois, and Stephen Phillip Cohen, Senior Fellow in the Foreign Policy Studies program at the Brookings Institution and Professor Emeritus of Histey and Political Science at Univ of Illinois, November 2002.
(South Asia in 2020: Future Strategic Balances and Alliances, Chapter Seven: Bombs in Search of a mission: India’s Uncertain Nuclear Future, Michael R. Chambers, ed.p. [[http://www.carlisle.army.mil/ssl/pdffiles/PUB108.pdf]])
China’s direct response –deploying more inter-continental ballistic missiles (ICBMs), many
AND
relationship with China would inevitable raise the strategic temperature between India and Pakistan.
B. That causes global prolif.
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Cirincione 2K</span>
Joseph, **<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT,sans-serif;">Cirincione</span>**, ASIAN NUCLEAR REACTION CHAIN, **<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">2000</span>**
<span style="color: blue; font-family: TimesNewRomanPSMT,serif;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=632]]</span>
But those who claim to be reinventing arms control for the 21st century are turning
AND
__the US hope to prevent a nuclear tsunami from sweeping out of Asia.__

C. Extinction
**Extinction**
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Utgoff – 2</span> (<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Victor, Deputy Director for Strategy, Forces and Resources at the Institute for Defense Analyses, Survival, “Proliferation, Missile Defense and American Ambitions”, Volume 44, Number 2, Summer, p. 87-90)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Further, the large number of states that became capable of building nuclear weapons over </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">members of a sheriff’s posse, even in the face of nuclear threats.</span>

==Chinese Relations== 
A. Relations collapse them
Venu Rajamony, Visiting Fellow at the Center for strategic and Int’l studies, 3-15-2002 (CSIS, India-China-U.S. Triangle: A ‘Soft’ Balance of Power System in the Making, [[http://www.csis.org/saprog/venu.pdf]])
Even before Septermber 11, analysts in China were more or less convinced that the
AND
sees the United States as having strengthened this encirclement and tightened the noose.

B. Nuclear war.
<span class="cite0">Desperes 01</span>
John <span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT,sans-serif;">Desperes</span>, Senior Fellow at the RAND Corporation, <span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT,sans-serif;">‘1 </span>(//<span style="font-family: TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT,serif;">China, the United States, and the Global Economy</span>//, p. 227-8)
Nevertheless, America's main interests in China have been quite constant, namely peace,
AND
__protects its dwindling habitats will affect the global atmosphere and currently endangered species.__

==__Asian War__== 
A. India relations cause China-India confrontation, sparking instability in Asia.
S.D. Muni, Prof. at the Jawahalal Nehru Univ. and Honorary Research Fellow of the Monash Asia Institu, 2004 (Regional Security in the Asia Pacific, September 11: the Asian giants get closer, Eds. Vieziany, Wright-Neville, and Lentini, p. 94-5)
A critical factor in Sino-Indian relations is the nature and impact of growing
AND
renewed tensions in Sino-Indian relations may emerge rather sharply and unexpectedly.
B. Nuclear war
Dibb 01
Paul, Professor at Australian National University, “Strategic Trends: Asia at a Crossroads, Naval War College,
Winter 01, <span style="color: blue;">http://findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m0JIW/is_1_54/ai_75762211</span>
__The areas of maximum danger and instability in the world today are in Asia,__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Regional Forum have shown themselves to be ineffective when confronted with major crises.</span>