<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]
</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;"> I'm more than happy to send you specific cites if you want them. Just come find me or send an email to smathews13@kentdenver.org</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">September-October</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Habermas AC</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Cosmos AC</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Gitmo Plan</span>=== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Prussians NC</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Danger Close NC</span>=== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Contracts NC</span>=== 

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Requested Blocks</span>== 
===<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Schopenhauer Impact Turns</span>=== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">There is no intrinsic good, just the absence of suffering. Existence is net-bad. **Schopenhauer:**</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">(THE ESSAYS OF ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUER: STUDIES IN PESSIMISM TRANSLATED BY T. BAILEY SAUNDERS, M.A. January 17, 2004)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Life presents itself...Time and Space.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Existence is painful. We are constantly striving for ends but never able to satisfy our wills because such ends are inescapably fleeting. **Schopenhauer 2:**</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This vanity finds... so very miserable.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Even if one perceives one's own existence to be good, such perceptions do not render one's existence more desirable than non-existence. **Benatar:** (David [Head of the Philosophy Department, Cape Town], </span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Better Never to Have Been</span>//<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">, 2006)</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">That coming into... enjoyed that good.</span>

<span style="font-family: Times New Roman,Times,serif;">**Disclaimer:** First, these arguments are meant to be run as impact turns under a hedonistic framework, not to justify their own independent standard. In other words, they shouldn't be construed to say that death is good, but rather that //if// one attempts to maximize pleasure etc. //then// non-existence would be more desirable than existence. Second, from what I understand, Benatar still believes that death is bad. His advocacy is that we prevent //future// persons from coming into existence. I have employed this argument as a preempt to 'we perceive our existence to be good regardless of whether it actually is,' not as an independent reason why existence is net-bad. Anyway, be careful how you run these arguments. I personally have not employed them frequently, but enough people were asking that it was more pragmatic for me to disclose than to email cites to everyone personally.</span>
=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">November-December</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 

=<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">January-February</span>= 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Affirmative</span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Negative</span>== 


<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[include page="space.template.Footer"]] </span>