[[toc]]
=States CP= 

==1NC== 


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The 50 states and all relevant subnational governments should . </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">States solve best</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Edwards 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute and the editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org|www.downsizinggovernment.org]]</span> Chris, October 21, 2011, “Infrastructure projects to fix the economy? Don’t bank on it,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/infrastructure-projects-to-fix-the-economy-dont-bank-on-it/2011/10/18/gIQAgtZi3L_story_1.html]]</span></span>
**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">When the federal government is … </span>__**__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">to the public. They’re ready.</span>__

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Generic Solvency---2NC</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Only the states breed competition, efficiency, and avoid monopolies</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Edwards 11</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Chris Edwards, “The Downside of Federal Infrastructure Spending”, CATO Institute, Chris Edwards is the director of tax policy studies at Cato and editor of www.DownsizingGovernment.org. He is a top expert on federal and state tax and budget issues. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation. Edwards has testified to Congress on fiscal issues many times, and his articles on tax and budget policies have appeared in the Washington Post, Wall Street Journal, and other major newspapers. He is the author of Downsizing the Federal Government and co-author of Global Tax Revolution. Edwards holds a B.A. and M.A. in economics, and he was a member of the Fiscal Future Commission of the National Academy of Sciences., <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org/downside-federal-infrastructure-spending]]</span></span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">My Washington Post op-ed on … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">U.S. economic growth in coming years</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.’</span>



==__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fed Oversight---2NC</span>__== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">None of their solvency deficits apply anyways---the fed can still oversee the projects, but the state governments will ultimately be in power</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Koch 6 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Christopher, President & CEO of the World Shipping Council Remarks at the 6th Annual Trans-Pacific Maritime Conference, “Government Policy and Action Regarding Improvement of the Nation’s Intermodal Transportation Infrastructure,” World Shipping Council, 3/6/06, http://www.worldshipping.org/pdf/transpacific_maritime_conference_paper_march_2006.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At the same time, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">there … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">with state and local planners.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fed Models---2NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Obama will model effective state policies</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schwartz 9 </span>**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">John, “Obama Seems to Be Open to a Broader Role for States,” NYTimes, 1/29/09, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/us/politics/30federal.html?_r=1)RK|http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/30/us/politics/30federal.html?_r=1]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Obama administration seems</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to … a former solicitor general of Ohio.</span>

==Climate Adapatation---2NC== 
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">States take interest in transportation infrastructure – they access the aff’s federal key warrants</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AASHTO 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">American Association for State Highway Transportation Officials – representing transportation infrastructure in the 50 states, May 29, 2009, “Transportation and Sustainability Best Practices Background”, https://www.dot.ny.gov/programs/greenlites/repository/AASHTO%20Sustainability%20Briefing%20Paper.pdf</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">According to the 2008 FHWA Peer … in Rhode Island and Louisiana.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The states take efforts now – local governments are better for management</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AASHTO 9</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">American Association for State Highway Transportation Officials – representing transportation infrastructure in the 50 states, May 29, 2009, “Transportation and Sustainability Best Practices Background”, https://www.dot.ny.gov/programs/greenlites/repository/AASHTO%20Sustainability%20Briefing%20Paper.pdf</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Of the many sustainability elements, … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">its CSS clearinghouse link (May 2009). </span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Coordination---2NC</span>== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">States have an incentive to be regionally compatible </span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Callen 8</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The Harris School, University of Chicago Zachary, February 24, 2008, “Responding to Railroad Hubs: State-Level Coordination and American Political Development,” Page 7-8, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://harrisschool.uchicago.edu/programs/beyond/workshops/ampolpapers/winter08-callen.pdf]]</span></span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">To enhance the value of … </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">service but also regional compatibility</span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">.</span>__



==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Theory Card---2NC</span>== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">-</span> **<span style="font-size: 11pt;">It’s real world, in the literature, and a core question of the resolution</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Utt 12</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Ronald D. Utt, Ph.D., is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation, Feb 7</span>
<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 10pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states]]</span>
__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Currently, the most direct legislation … greater state responsibility</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and discretion.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Abolish the Army Corps CP</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>== 


**TEXT: The United States federal government should delegate authority over waterway development projects to state and local governments, transfer non-civilian activities of the Army Corps to the Department of the Interior, and abolish the civilian side of the Army Corps. The 50 states and all relevant sub-national governments should substantially increase their investment in and provide tax credits to private companies for waterway development projects.**



**The Corps fails---multiple reasons---states and privatization are key**

**Edwards 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris Edwards is a director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute and the editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.downsizinggovernment.org|www.downsizinggovernment.org]]</span>, “A jobs plan we shouldn't bank on,” Oct 23, lexis</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Increased infrastructure spending has significant … to the public. They're ready</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>




==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Fed Fails---2NC</span>== 


**The fed fails---**

**a) Bureaucracy**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris </span>**Edwards 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, and editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.DownsizingGovernment.org|www.DownsizingGovernment.org]]</span>, former senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation, “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers,” http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/chrisedwards/2012/03/19/cutting_the_army_corps_of_engineers/page/full/</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The civilian part of the … Corps should be closed down.</span>__



**c) Special interests---__star this__---… secondary to short term gains**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris </span>**Edwards 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, and editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.DownsizingGovernment.org|www.DownsizingGovernment.org]]</span>, former senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation, “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers,” http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/chrisedwards/2012/03/19/cutting_the_army_corps_of_engineers/page/full/</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">While Corps' projects are supposed … make the most economic sense.</span>




**Empirics prove Corps fail**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris </span>**Edwards 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, and editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.DownsizingGovernment.org|www.DownsizingGovernment.org]]</span>, former senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation, “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers,” http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/chrisedwards/2012/03/19/cutting_the_army_corps_of_engineers/page/full/</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Two Centuries of Mission Creep </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">… </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">thus cost federal taxpayers doubly.</span>__



==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Private Sector Solves---2NC</span>== 


**And, the private sector solves comparatively better**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chris </span>**Edwards 12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">director of tax policy studies at the Cato Institute, and editor of <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.DownsizingGovernment.org|www.DownsizingGovernment.org]]</span>, former senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation, “Cutting the Army Corps of Engineers,” http://finance.townhall.com/columnists/chrisedwards/2012/03/19/cutting_the_army_corps_of_engineers/page/full/</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The slow progress of Corps' … governments and the private sector</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Natives PIC</span>= 

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Counterplan:</span>The United States federal government should substantially increase funding for roads and bridges on Indigenous Peoples’ reservations.**

**“Native American” is a dehumanizing term that reflects a linguistic imperialism and subjugates the identities of the peoples it attempts to describe - we must discard it in favor of the term “First Nations” Peoples as an act of intellectual liberation that corrects a distorted narrative of imperialism**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">**Yellow Bird, 99** (Michael Yellow Bird, Assistant Professor and Director of the Office for the Study of Indigenous Social and Cultural Justice in the School of Social Welfare, University of Kansas, “Indian, American Indian, and Native Americans: Counterfeit Identities”, Winds of Change: A Magazine for American Indian Education and Opportunity, http://www.aistm.org/yellowbirdessay.htm#1, RM) </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">In his recent article "The Colonialism of Names" (Winds of Change, Winter, 1997), Dr. Jack </span><span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Forbes ...that has been maintained far too long by Europeans and European Americans.</span>
=<span class="DebateUnderline" style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Directives CP</span>= 


==1NC== 



**Text: The United States House Appropriations Committee should direct [insert agency] that it expects the agency to [insert plan].**

**It’s competitive---plan requires agency action through congressional authorized statutory language, while the counterplan is nonstatutory and advisory**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter</span> **Oleszek** **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is an Adjunct Professor Department of Government, American University, Congressional Procedures and the Policy Process, Eighth Edition</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fundamental to the congressional budget … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for various Coast Guard expenses.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan bypasses lawmaking</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael</span> **Kirst 69** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is emeritus Professor of Education and Business Administration at Stanford University, Government Without Passing Laws</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The legislative committees have found … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the agency or activity.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan Solves: Informal directives not accompanied by law are enforced by executive agencies.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter</span> **Oleszek** **11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">is an Adjunct Professor Department of Government, American University, Congressional Procedures and the Policy Process, Eighth Edition</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Nonstatutory and Informal Controls </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Congress</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">most prevalent techniques of oversight. </span>__





**Empirically solves w/ transpo infrastructure**

**House Appropriation Committee June 20**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> 2012 (112TH CONGRESS REPORT 2d Session " HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES ! 112–541 **DEPARTMENTS OF TRANSPORTATION**, AND HOUSING AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, 2013, http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-112hrpt541/pdf/CRPT-112hrpt541.pdf)</span>



**__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Committee includes a provision</span>__**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (Sec. 405) </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">… program requirements in fiscal year 2013.</span>







==AT Perm: Do The CP---2NC== 



**FIRST is RESOLVED**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Resolved means to express by formal vote</span>**

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Webster’s Revised Unabridged Dictionary, 1998</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;"> (dictionary.com)</span>

**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Resolved:</span>**

<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">5. </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 10pt;">To express, as an … </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>



**Permutation is severance: it severs out of the enforceability of the plan, which they conceded is a part of plan implementation in CX**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Walter </span>**Oleszek****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is an Adjunct Professor Department of Government, American University, Congressional Procedures and the Policy Process, Eighth Edition</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Fundamental to the congressional budget … </span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">for various Coast Guard expenses. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Counterplan excludes formal votes</span>**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Michael </span>**Kirst 69**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is emeritus Professor of Education and Business Administration at Stanford University, Government Without Passing Laws</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> The important point is … for both types of control. </span>





**And, the following words mean the affirmative must defend certainty and immediacy:**

**“Resolved”**

**OED 7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Oxford English Dictionary</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Resolved: firm determination to do something</span>__



**So does “should”**

**Summer 94**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Justice for the Oklahoma Supreme Court, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Should"</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> … they "should disregard false testimony").</span>



**And, they sever “substantial”**

**Words and Phrases 64**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> 40 W&P 759, Volume 8, p. 7329</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The words</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “outward, open, actual, … inclusive. Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.</span>





**Severs “the”**

**Google Dictionary, 2011**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [“The”, http://www.google.com/#hl=en&authuser=0&q=the&tbs=dfn:1&tbo=u&sa=X&ei=sCgCToT5AsrEswasn9CuDQ&sqi=2&ved=0CCQQkQ4&bav=on.2,or.r_gc.r_pw.&fp=e2cdbf82a93ada0c&biw=1149&bih=696</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Used to </span>____<span style="font-size: 10pt;">…</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> endangered list</span>


=<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Climate Standards Conditions CP</span>= 


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TEXT: The United States federal government should condition _____ on state adoption of new federal transportation infrastructure climate resiliency standards. </span>**



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Here’s the solvency advocate---federal funding should be conditioned on state adoption of federal standards---key to infrastructure climate resiliency</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Farber 9 </span>**Daniel A. Farber is the Sho Sato Professor of Law and Chair, Energy and Resources Group, University of California, Berkeley“Climate Adaptation and Federalism: Mapping the Issues” 1/1/9 http://scholarship.law.berkeley.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1411&context=facpubs

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">II. SETTING ADAPTATION STANDARDS: THE ANALOGY TO ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although the two may be connected in practice, it is useful to distinguish two … currently used by an endangered or threatened species, when climate change is likely to force the species to relocate to that habitat. </span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The states will say yes---the condition is key</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Somin 2</span>** Ilya, Law Clerk and PhD candidate at Harvard, “Closing the Pandora's Box of Federalism: The Case for Judicial Restriction of Federal Subsidies to State Governments”, Jan, Georgetown Law Journal, accessed lexisnexis 7/22/12

__Federal subsidization of state governments …__ **__that they make headlines__**__. <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.lexisnexis.com.turing.library.northwestern.edu/lnacui2api/frame.do?reloadEntirePage=true&rand=1342986062911&returnToKey=20_T15176273236&parent=docview&target=results_DocumentContent&tokenKey=rsh-20.528923.444070368#n26|n26]]</span>__



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent resiliency our infrastructure will be devastated---turns the aff and destroys the economy</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Potter et al</span>****<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 8</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Joanne R. March, 2008 Michael J. Savonis, Virginia R. Burkett U.S. Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 4.7 “Impacts of Climate Change and Variability on Transportation Systems and Infrastructure: Gulf Coast Study, Phase I” </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://files.library.northwestern.edu.turing.library.northwestern.edu/transportation/online/restricted/200819/PB2008110533.pdf]]</span>

__Transportation is such an integral …__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> a lengthening of construction seasons due to fewer colder days in traditionally cold climates.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nuclear war</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span>** Jedediah Royal, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense, 2010, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises,” in Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Less intuitive is how periods of </span>__economic decline may__ **__…__**<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, crisis and armed conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention.</span>



==2NC Say Yes== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No political resistance to the CP—aid incentivizes cooperation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Somin 2</span>** Ilya, Law Clerk and PhD candidate at Harvard, “Closing the Pandora's Box of Federalism: The Case for Judicial Restriction of Federal Subsidies to State Governments”, Jan, Georgetown Law Journal, accessed lexisnexis 7/22/12
__There can be little doubt that federal subsidies to state ….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> federal grants and commandeering.</span>
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal aid motivates broad state support on any issue—federal-aid highway proves goals and penalties aren’t a deterrent</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">GAO 4</span>** “FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS Trends, Effect on State Spending, and Options for Future Program Design”,Aug, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d04802.pdf]]</span>
__The federal-aid highway program has a__ __….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> government in medical costs that resulted from the increased use.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 7pt;">2NC Infrastructure Standards Key</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Infrastructure standards are key</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neumann 9 </span>**James Neumann is Principal, Industrial Economics, Inc. “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms” December Issue Brief 09-15 http://www.rff.org/rff/documents/RFF-IB-09-15.pdf

__A longer____-term policy goal is …. **needed in the near term.**__ 
==__2NC Resiliency Good__== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Resiliency solves</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DEFRA 11</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">“Climate Resilient Infrastructure: Preparing for a Changing Climate; Adapting Infrastructure to a Changing Climate”; May 9, 2011 Defra - Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/|www.defra.gov.uk/environment/climate/sectors/infrastructure-companies/]]</span>
__The impact of climate change on infrastructure is … promote climate resilience, reducing the risk of damage and securing rates of return.__

==2NC AT Squo Solves== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Squo doesn’t solve---CP is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Neumann 9 </span>**James Neumann is Principal, Industrial Economics, Inc. “Adaptation to Climate Change: Revisiting Infrastructure Norms” December Issue Brief 09-15 http://www.rff.org/rff/documents/RFF-IB-09-15.pdf
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Public </span>__infrastructure is a major__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> current and future </span>__… **in the near term.**__ 


==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2NC AT PDCP</span>== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, the following words mean the affirmative must defend certainty and immediacy:</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">“Resolved”</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">OED 7</span>**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Oxford English Dictionary</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Resolved: firm determination to do something</span>__



**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">And---investment is unconditional---the CP uses “funding” instead</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Saigh 61 </span>**Elizabeth Lewis Saigh, Transferee, et al., 1 Petitioners, v. Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Respondent UNITED STATES TAX COURT 36 T.C. 395; 1961 U.S. Tax Ct. LEXIS 142 May 25, 1961, Filed Lexis

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Furthermore, </span>__the acceptance of__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> Saigh's </span>__….__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Building Inc.) </span>__to secure repayment__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">So does “should”</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Summer 94</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Justice for the Oklahoma Supreme Court, http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn14</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">"</span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Should"</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> not only </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">is</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> used as </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">a "present indicative" ….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to the jury which tells the triers they "should disregard false testimony").</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And, they sever “substantial”</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Words and Phrases 64</span>** <span style="font-size: 10pt;">40 W&P 759, Volume 8, p. 7329</span>

__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The words</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “outward, open, actual, visible, </span>__<span style="font-size: 10pt;">….</span>__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> to form; actually existing; true; not including admitting, or pertaining to any others; undivided; sole; opposed to inclusive. Bass v. Pease, 79 Ill. App. 308, 318.</span>