==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">[[toc]]  </span>== 
==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Capitalism</span>== 
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Capitalism and transport are intrinsically related – free mobility exists in the acts of consumption of the privileged class while immobility corresponds with the coerced and restricted movements of the oppressed.</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Seiler 9 [Cotten, Associate professor of American studies at Dickinson College, “Republic of Drivers : A Cultural History of Automobility in America” pg 22-23]</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Mobility’s status as a right— liberalism’s conceptual stock in trade— also owes to</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">” and “modes of motion [are] identified with masculine competencies.”</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Resisting this reliance on economic evaluation is the ultimate ethical responsibility – the current social order guarantees social exclusion on a global scale </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Zizek and Daly 2k4 (Slavoj and Glyn, Conversations with Zizek page 14-16)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">For Zizek it is imperative that we cut through this Gordian knot of postmodern protocol</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">abject Other to that of a ‘glitch’ in an otherwise sound matrix.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative is a meta-choice – saying no to the affirmative as an act of confrontational refusal allows for complete withdraw from the system</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Kunkle, Professor of Social Sciences at Vermont College, 2007 Sheila, International Journal of Zizek Studies, 1.3 http://zizekstudies.org/index.php/ijzs/article/view/59/118 </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This logic of parallax requires a contingent universe of encounters where a paradoxical choice is</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">place of the sexual relation and reveals that the Law itself is excessive. </span>

==<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Virilio/Speed</span>== 

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Virilio, 1997 – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 81-83)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Development-the whole point of all.... messages instantaneously transmitted long-distance to be connected.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Sykes, 2009 – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The war machine is... we must politicize speed.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment.</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">This is uniquely key to politicizing speed-all else fails</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Glezos 2009 - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina ([[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]], “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',Times,serif;">Politicize war, to challenge... through political practice.</span>

== ==