[[toc]]
=Affirmative= 
=1AC SCU= 
==Contention 1 is Inherency== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Adoption of a “fix when fail” policy ensures delays and collapse of inland waterways</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Len Boselovic, award winner for business and investigative reporting, 3/18/2012, Pittsburgh Post (“THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS”)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Faced with flat funding...they are headed.</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That completely halts inland river commerce</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Alexander 12 (TIM ALEXANDER, Illinois Correspondent for FarmWorld, “STC calls on Congress for reliable waterways funding,” 4/25/2012 http://www.farmworldonline.com/news/NewsArticle.asp?newsid=14505)hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WASHINGTON, D.C. — Transportation...means lost jobs.”</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Failure of one lock spills over – brings all river commerce to a standstill</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Meira 12 (Kristin Meira, Executive Director @ Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, Political Transcript of a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, proquest)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Early in the...the entire system.</span>
==Plan== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in inland waterway transportation infrastructure by modernizing its system of locks and dams.</span>**
==Contention 2 is Agriculture== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lock collapse decimates agriculture exports – shipping costs destroy competitiveness</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kruse et al., Director at the Center for Ports and waterways, 2011 (“America’s Locks & Dams: “A Ticking Time Bomb for Agriculture?”, www.unitedsoybean.org/wp-content/uploads/Americas_Locks_And_Dams.pdf)</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agriculture accounted...percentage was 87–89%.2</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Roads and rails fail – spikes transportation cost and collapses exports</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">USB, 12 (United Soybean Board, 2/8/12, “Dilapidated Locks on U.S. Rivers Put Farmers, Consumers at Risk,” http://www.unitedsoybean.org/global-opportunities-briefings/dilapidated-locks-on-u-s-rivers-put-farmers-consumers-at-risk/)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The study expresses...for agricultural shipping.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shipping cost is the biggest internal link to food price spikes</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">UN Committee on Transport 08 United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">SUMMARY Recent increases in...or international levels.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The brink is high – economic recessions and recent food crises have put response capacity on the edge</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 11 (LESTER R. BROWN, “The New Geopolitics of Food,” May/June 2011, foreign Policy, United States environmental analyst, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington, D.C.)hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Until recently, sudden...cushion is gone.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 1 is Famine</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Developing countries are more and more dependent on US food imports</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kwa 03 “Developing countries are becoming more dependent on food imports,” Aileen Kwa, FOCUS ON TRADE No 86, APRIL 2003</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Developing countries are...dependent on imports</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food prices wreck purchasing power in developing countries – causes mass starvation</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown 11 (LESTER R. BROWN, “The New Geopolitics of Food,” May/June 2011, foreign Policy, United States environmental analyst, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington, D.C.)hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the United States...revolutions and upheaval.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That kills billions</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Power 1996 (Paul R.; Tampa Tribune Staff Writer, "Grain Shortage Growing Problem" 1/20 Tampa Tribune l/n)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are more...a day or less."</span>


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Famine causes world war, genocide, terrorism, and collapse of democracy</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">CRIBB 2010 (Julian, Julian Cribb is a science communicator, journalist and editor of several newspapers and books. His published work includes over 7,000 newspaper articles, 1,000 broadcasts, and three books and has received 32 awards for science, medical, agricultural and business journalism. He was Director, National Awareness, for Australia's science agency, CSIRO, foundation president of the Australian Science Communicators, and originated the CGIAR's Future Harvest strategy. He has worked as a newspaper editor, science editor for "The Australian "and head of public affairs for CSIRO. He runs his own science communication consultancy, “The coming famine: the global food crisis and what we can do to avoid it,” p. 14-18)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">If large regions...their motivating causes.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Democracy Checks War, Genocide and MASS Murder</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DIAMOND 1999</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">[Larry, Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institute, “Developing Democracy: Toward Consolidation,” Johns Hopkins University Press, p. 6]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beyond the violence...foster democratic freedom."</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 2 is China</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Domestic production shortfalls means China is shifting heavily to food imports – price hikes tank food security and cause domestic instability</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Shea 5/29 (Paul Shea, an Irish Economics, Finance and Investment writer. His work has been featured on the front page Google News and Google Finance, “The US Has a Very Important Resource which China Doesn’t: Food,” May 29, 2012 )hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">As China’s economy...with our own.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US imports are the only internal link to collapse – other countries can’t fill in immediately due to opposite growing seasons and small market share</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">WSJ 12 “UPDATE: Brazil Seen Running Out of Soybeans for Export,” June 6, 2012; hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Because the Southern...shape," Mr. Thin said.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That escalates to full political upheaval in China</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Smith 98 (Paul J. Smith is a research fellow with the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Hawaii. He specializes in transnational security issues and has published numerous articles on these subjects.], “FOOD SECURITY AND POLITICAL STABILITY IN THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION,” ASIA-PACIFIC CENTER FOR SECURITY STUDIES, SEPTEMBER 11, 1998http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Report_Food_Security_98.html )hhs-ps</span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;"> </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Food security and...issue of regime survival.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chinese instability causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Yee and Storey 2002 (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 (The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, RoutledgeCurzon, pg 5)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The fourth factor...and the world.</span>

===<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scenario 3 is Deforestation</span>=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Rising food prices will force arable land increases that will come at the cost of global biodiversity</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Blas 08 (Javier, London Financial Times Asia Edition, Jan. 22nd, l/n accessed 8/1)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Scarcity of water...the report said. Sugar price surge, Page 24 28E 40L 26U www.ft.com/foodprices </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, US soybean competitiveness is key to prevent Brazil from dominating the soy market</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AM 11 (11/11/11, agrimoney.com, “US soy exports have 'narrow window' for recovery,” http://www.agrimoney.com/news/us-soy-exports-have-narrow-window-for-recovery--3836.html)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US soybean exporters...are seasonally small".</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Growth of Brazilian soybean exports triggers deforestation of the Amazon rainforest that is key for biodiversity</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Brown, 9 President of the Earth Policy Institute (Lester R. Brown, the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, a MacArthur Fellowship, the 1987 United Nations' Environment Prize, In 2012, he was inducted into the Earth Hall of Fame Kyoto, “Growing Demand for Soybeans Threatens Amazon Rainforest”, December 30, 2009, http://www.earth-policy.org/plan_b_updates/2009/update86)</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Amazon rainforest...soon as possible.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Agriculture growth is the biggest internal link to rapid irreversible biodiversity loss</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Walsh 11 (“Forests Vs. Food?” Bryan Walsh, Senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment—and also, occasionally, scary diseases. Feb. 7 2011, http://science.t[[#_Hlt331810315]][[#_Hlt331810316]]ime.com/2011/02/07/forests-vs-food/)hhs-ps</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Still, all this...driver in forest loss.” </span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Amazon deforestation causes extinction</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Takacs 96 (Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay [David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise, pg. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm]</span>**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">So biodiversity...but a whimper.14</span>

==Contention 3 is the Economy== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Lack of investment in lock modernization is stifling multiple industries – the plan is key to prevent industry collapse. </span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">USA Today, Paul Davidson staff writer, 5/20/12, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1, “USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy”; AB</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inland waterways quietly...less visible, he says.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Even if there are no catastrophic failures the lack of investment injects uncertainty that will undermine the viability of the inland waterway system</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Bray, 11 --- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System,” Factiva, JMP)</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Has Aging Infrastructure...top many lists.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That uncertainty over the funding of inland waterways ensures economic disaster</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Gibbs, 12 – Member, Representative for Ohio’s 18th Congressional District (4/18/2012, Bob Gibbs, “HOW RELIABILITY OF THE INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM IMPACTS ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS”, http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1609)</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Washington, DC – The Water Resources...to our country.”</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Royal 10 [Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Less intuitive is...more attention.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Contention 4 is Solvency</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Army Corp key – expertise, coordination with agencies, engineering, empirics</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Dr. William G. Howland 4 is the Basin Program Manager of Lake Champlain, Grand Isle, VT, “U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ROLE IN THE NATION'S WATER RESOURCE NEEDS IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Capital Hill Testimony, March 31, lexis</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Our partnership...your questions.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Empirics flow aff- The corp is successful</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Kibler, 6-21-12 (Joan, Journalist US Army Corps of engineers, Middle East District, “Army Corps of Engineers continues construction in Iraq”, http://www.army.mil/article/82304/Army_Corps_of_Engineers_continues_construction_in_Iraq/)</span>**


<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Though its construction...U.S. Embassy-Iraq.</span>





**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Funding for waterway modernization in the squo – just a question of effectiveness</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 3/25/2012 (Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “Water torture: Congress needs to act on decaying locks and dams,” March 25, 2012, http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12085/1219052-192.stm )hhs-ps</span>**



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Congress bears...you so."</span>

=Negative= 

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]