[[toc]]
=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Icebreaking Bio-D DA</span>= 

==**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">1NC Shell</span>__**== 
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Icebreaking</span>__****<span style="font-family: Georgia;"> causes noise interference which disrupts Arctic species</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AMSA 09</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">(Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment, “Environmental Considerations and Impacts,” US Arctic Research Commission, 2009,</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.arctic.gov/publications/AMSA/environmental.pdf]]</span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">Icebreakers and Disturbance</span><span style="font-family: Georgia;"> __All icebreaking operations__, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">whether by independent commercial icebreaking ships or government</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">behavior</span>____<span style="font-family: Georgia;">and to disrupt the hearing ability and vocalizationof marine mammals.</span>__

**This uniquely __collapses__ the Arctic ecosystem and critical species**
**AMSA 09** (Arctic Marine Shipping Assessment, “Environmental Considerations and Impacts,” US Arctic Research Commission, 2009,<span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.arctic.gov/publications/AMSA/environmental.pdf]]</span>)

For most marine vertebrates, making, hearing and
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">additional research is ongoing and needed in key areas.</span>

**Extinction**
**WWF 10** (World Wildlife Fund, “Drilling for Oil in the Arctic: Too Soon, Too Risky,” Nuka Research and Planning Group, LLC, December 1, 2010, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://assets.worldwildlife.org/publications/393/files/original/Drilling_for_Oil_in_the_Arctic_Too_Soon_Too_Risky.pdf?1345753131]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Planetary Keystone</span><span style="line-height: 1.5;"> The Arctic and the subarctic regions</span>
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, the Arctic is a keystone ecosystem for the entire planet.</span>



=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">China Internal Politics DA <3 Ian</span>= 

==1NC Shell== 

**China is increasingly unstable—violent unrest is possible**
**WSJ 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“The Chinese Awakening.” [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424052702303936704576394911086791704.html]]. June 21st 2011)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Chinese Communist Party is 90 years old on July 1, and by way</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">unrest, but </span>__the Chinese people are stirring against the injustices of dictatorship.__

**China is solely reactionary – any US action would spark dangerous counterbalancing**
**Zhang, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although many U.S. experts are correct in emphasizing the importance of space</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">since “maintaining status quo is the minimum goal of any great power.”</span>

**Crisis management is just what is needed to get the hardliners into power.**
**Moses 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Wall Street Journal. 06/10/11. [[http://blogs.wsj.com/chinarealtime/2011/06/20/beijings-strange-composure-in-the-face-of-crises/?mod=google_news_blog]]. “Beijing’s Strange Composure in the Face of Crisis.” Russell Leigh Moses is a Beijing-based analyst and professor who writes on Chinese politics. He is writing a book on the changing role of power in the Chinese political system.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are many reasons why Chinese officials might be starting to sweat about the summer</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">than a measure of perspiration and inspiration to take up political reform again. </span>

**Hardliner takeover cause increased Chinese brinkmanship—that could result in war in the South China Sea**
**Medcalf 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">([[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/all-at-sea-over-beijing-brinksmanship/story-e6frg6ux-1226082315305.%20June%2027|http://www.theaustralian.com.au/news/world/all-at-sea-over-beijing-brinksmanship/story-e6frg6ux-1226082315305. June 27]], 2011. Rory Medcalf directs the international security program at the Lowy Institute. This article is based on a major Lowy-MacArthur Foundation paper to be released tomorrow. “All at Sea Over China Brinkmanship.”)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A MAN-MADE tempest is gathering in the South China Sea. Time and</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">is too late for moderates to gain a hearing once the shooting starts.</span>

**Extinction**
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 16pt;">Cheong 2k</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Ching, Senior Writer at the Strait Times, “No one gains in a war over Taiwan,” June 25th, Lexis)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">THE high-intensity scenario postulates </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">a cross-strait war escalating into a full</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">should that come to pass, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 11pt;">we would see the destruction of civilization.</span>

==2NC Rare Earth Turn== 

**Turns the aff—China controls the rare earth elements critical to the space and defense industry**
**Humphries 10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [September 30 2010, Mark Humphries, Analyst in Energy Policy at the Congressional Research Service, “Rare Earth Elements: The Global Supply Chain”, [[http://cnie.org/NLE/CRSreports/10Oct/R41347.pdf]], IWren]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__concentration of production of rare earth elements__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (REEs) </span>__outside the U__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>__States__
__AND__
__systems, antimissile defense, **and space-based satellites and communication systems**__**.**

==2NC Link Debate== 

**Three links to any space development**

**First is containment—china fears of encirclement make any space advances zero sum with their national interest**
**Blair and****Yali****06**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Blair is the president of the World Security Institute, and Yali is the editor-in-chief of Washington Observer Weekly. “The Security Dilemna in Space” in //Bringing Chinese Perspectives to Washington//, a publication of the World Security Institute China Program, 2006 Issue No 2. [[http://www.wsichina.org/attach/china_security2.pdf]]) Bruce & Chen</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For China, the prevailing worldview sees a superpower striving for absolute security, a</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__space war seems to many Chinese to be another form of resource war.__

**Second is resources—China views space access as being monopolized by the US, plan furthers that**
**Listner 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael Listner, legal and policy analyst with a focus on issues relating to space law and policy, writes a regular column on space law and policy at Examiner.com, received his JD in 2001 from Regent University of School of Law in Virginia Beach, VA and was admitted to the New Hampshire Bar in 2003, 4/25/11, “An exercise in the Art of War: China’s National Defense white paper, outer space, and the PPWT,” The Space Review, [[http://www.thespacereview.com/article/1828/1]]) </span>

__United States space policy has evolved to recognize the dependence on its outer space systems__
__AND__
__develop anti-satellite and space weapons to defend against that goal__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.9</span>

**Third is defense—china thinks any US advancement is accompanied by an increase in defensive measures—that causes counterbalancing**
**Zhang, 11** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Center for Asia Pacific Studies at Lingnan University (March/April, “The Security Dilemma in the U.S.-China Military Space Relationship,” Asian Survey, Vol. 51, No. 2, JSTOR)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although many U.S. experts are correct in emphasizing the importance of space</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">since “maintaining status quo is the minimum goal of any great power.”</span>

==I/L- CCP Stability== 

**Chinese space leadership is key to CCP stability – plan causes nationalist up-rise**
**Johnson-Freese 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Dr. Joan Johnson-Freese Chair, Department of National Security Studies, Naval War College “Space Wei Qi: The Launch of Shenzhou V” http://www.usnwc.edu/getattachment/ba695c64-2c13-4913-a6f5-9ebcec9aa311/Space-Wei-Qi--The-Launch-of-Shenzhou-V---Johnson-F /)</span>

__China faces Herculean challenges on a daily basis keeping its population__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> employed, fed,</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">poster boy for the Chinese leadership and the role model for China’s youth. </span>

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Immigration Reform DA</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">1NC's</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">NFL Districts Round 2</span>=== 

**Immigration reform will pass now for multiple reasons**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jennifer </span>**Rubin, 4/23**<span class="SmallText">**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">/</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">2013 (staff writer, “Eight reasons for optimism on immigration reform,” [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/right-turn/wp/2013/04/23/eight-reasons-for-optimism-on-immigration-reform/]], Accessed 4/24/2013, rwg)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Immigration reform was certainly not the issue that most of us thought would have the</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. As a result, no one conservative argument has really taken hold.</span>

**Funding transportation infrastructure costs political capital:**
**Lowy ’12**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (JOAN LOWY, 11/5/2012 (staff writer, “Missing from presidential race: roads, bridges,” [[http://m.startribune.com/politics/?id=177259611]], Accessed 4/24/2013, rwg)</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">During his first months in office, Obama persuaded Congress to pass an economic recovery</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
spend <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">hundreds of billions of dollars </span>on <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">a long-term </span>transportation <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">plan</span>.

**Political capital is key to immigration reform, Obama is using every ounce of his political capital to get reform**
**Martin 3/28**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Gary Martin, 3/28/2013 (staff writer, [[http://www.ctpost.com/local/article/Immigration-reform-]]gaining-support-in-Congress-4393187.php Immigration reform gaining support in Congress, Accessed 4/24/2013, rwg)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WASHINGTON -- A Republican Party in desperate search for relevance to Latino voters. An</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">to Latinos, the nation's largest -- and growing -- minority voting bloc.</span>

**Immigration reform key to bolstering cyber-security defenses:**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">McLarty ’09 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, 7/8/2009 (Council</span> on Foreign Relations, “U.S. Immigration Policy: Report of a CFR-Sponsored Independent Task Force,” [[http://www.cfr.org/immigration/us-immigration-policy-report-cfr-sponsored-independent-task-force/p19759]], Accessed 4/24/2013, rwg)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have seen, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">when you look at the table of the </span>top <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">20 </span>firms
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">go back to their countries, at least they have a link here.</span>

**That //deters// and //solves the impact// to cyberattacks**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Saydjari 8**</span> (O. Sami, Cyber Defense Agency, LLC, “Structuring for Strategic Cyber Defense: A Cyber Manhattan Project Blueprint”, 2008 Annual Computer Security Applications Conference, http://www.acsac.org/2008/program /keynotes/saydjari.pdf)

As a step toward a security research plan that includes such capabilities, we should
AND
infrastructures. Currently, adversaries can attack critical systems without investing substantial resources.

**Cyberattacks escalate to nuclear war**
**Lawson 9** (Sean, PhD, expert in information-age warfare. "Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation" 13 May. www.seanlawson.net/?p=477)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The reason, in part, is that </span>**__the U.S. defense community__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">lethal agent is regarded with the same or greater seriousness.” [7] </span>

===<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">State TOC Round 1</span>=== 

**Uniqueness**— **Immigration Reform will pass now, but it’ll still be a fight.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CT POST 3/28/13</span>** Connecticut Post http://www.ctpost.com/local/article/Immigration-reform-gaining-support-in-Congress-4393187.php

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A Republican Partyin desperate search for</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> relevance to </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Latino voters. An expanded Democratic</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">experiences along the way," said</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Frank </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Sharry</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, America's Voice executive director.</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span>

**Obama’s Political Capital is key to comprehensive bill.**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Anniston Star, 3-27</span>** [Editorial Board, "On the offensive: Obama is wise to start anew the push for immigration reform," 3-27-13, annistonstar.com/view/full_story/22088295/article-On-the-offensive--Obama-is-wise-to-start-anew-the-push-for-immigration-reform?instance=opinion_lead, accessed 3-28-13, mss]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The point: President Obama didn’t fulfill his promise of securing sweeping immigration-reform</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of those discussions until it’s produced,” White House spokesman Josh Earnest said.</span>

**Failure to show spending restraint derails Obama’s push**
**__Leubsdorf__**__, **1/22**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Carl 2013 staff writer, “Obama will fail without debt solution,” http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/latest-columns/20130122-carl-leubsdorf-obama-will-fail-without-debt-solution.ece, Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Beyond a ringing call to advance the liberties of all Americans and a muted bid</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__Obama’s hopes of achieving__ __the rest of his ambitious second-term agenda.__

**Immigration reform solves cybersecurity preparedness**
**<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">McLarty 9</span>** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Thomas F. III, President – McLarty Associates and Former White House Chief of Staff and Task Force Co-Chair, “U.S. Immigration Policy: Report of a CFR-Sponsored Independent Task Force”, 7-8, http://www.cfr.org/ publication/19759/us_immigration_policy.html) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">We have seen, </span>__when you look at the__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> table of the </span>__top 20 firms__
__AND__
__going to strengthen__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, I think, our system, </span>__our security needs__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**The impact is nuclear war.**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Sean </span><span class="Heading4Char">Lawson</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">, 5/13/</span><span class="Heading4Char">2009</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">. Dr. Sean Lawson is an assistant professor in the Department of Communication at the University of Utah. “Cross-Domain Response to Cyber Attacks and the Threat of Conflict Escalation,” Transformation Tracker, </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 9pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://seanlawson.rhetorical-devices.net/2009/05/13/477]]</span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">.</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">At a time when it seems impossible to avoid the seemingly growing hysteria over the</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of cyberattacks (namely, cyberattacks with devastating impacts) may be possible. </span>

===Berkeley Round 1=== 

**Immigration reform will pass with Obama push – Republican response from State of Union proves**
<span style="font-size: 9pt;">Korn 2/13</span>/<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2013, Morgan, “Pres. Obama: ‘The Time Has Come to Pass Comprehensive Immigration Reform’,” The Daily Ticker</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Barack</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Obama laid out his ambitious agenda</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">for the next four years</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Tuesday night</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Focusing the nation’s resources on securing the U.S.-Mexico border should </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">not be the center of new immigration policy, Alden says.</span>

**Link – Failure to show spending restraint derails the rest of Obama’s agenda**
Carl <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Leubsdorf</span>, <span style="font-size: 9pt;">1/22</span>/2013 (staff writer, “Obama will fail without debt solution,” [[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/latest-columns/20130122-carl-leubsdorf-obama-will-fail-without-debt-solution.ece]], Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Beyond a ringing call to advance the liberties of all Americans and a muted bid </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
**__Obama’s hopes of achieving__** **__the rest of his ambitious second-term agenda.__**

**Presidential brokering is key**
Elise <span style="font-size: 9pt;">Foley, 1/15</span>/2013 (staff writer, “Obama Gears Up For Immigration Reform Push In Second Term,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/01/15/obama-immigration-reform_n_2463388.html]], Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Now there's the question of how Obama gets there. </span>**__While confrontation might work with__**
**__AND__**
**__the White House has learned, won't be enough to win over Republicans.__**

**Immigration reform key to US-Latin American relations:**
Arturo Lopez-**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levy</span>**, 11/24/20**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>** (doctoral candidate at the Josef Korbel School of International Studies of the University of Denver, “The Latin American Gorilla,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.theepochtimes.com/n2/opinion/the-latin-american-gorilla-318169.html]]</span>, Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)
**__Few political acts would have a greater effect on__** **__U.S.-Latin American__**
**__AND__**
**__remittances, investment__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, and the voting preferences of expatriates from those countries.</span>

**US-Latin American relations solve a host of existential scenarios:**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Shifter 12</span>** (Michael is the President of Inter-American Dialogue. “Remaking the Relationship: The United States and Latin America,” April, IAD Policy Report, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thedialogue.org/PublicationFiles/IAD2012PolicyReportFINAL.pdf]]</span>, Accessed 1/23/2013, rwg)
**__There are compelling reasons for the United States and Latin America to pursue more robust__**
**__AND__**
**__proceedingat an accelerating pace, setting a firmer basis for__** **__hemispheric partnership.__**
===Heritage Hall Round 1=== 

**Immigration reform will pass— Marco Rubio is helping bring in bipartisan debate but Obama’s push is key**
**Gibson 1/16** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[16 January 2013, William Gibson, Sun Sentinel’s Washington correspondent for 27 years, has covered seven presidential elections and 14 sessions of Congress, “Can Rubio lead on immigration reform?” http://weblogs.sun-sentinel.com/news/politics/dcblog/2013/01/can_rubio_lead_on_immigration.html, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Marco Rubio’s plan </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">to allow many of the nation’s illegal immigrants to get work permits</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**and tea party favorite**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, could not be reached for comment on Wednesday.</span>

**Transportation spending costs political capital**
**Bowman 1/2** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">2 January 2013, Robert J. Bowman, senior editor of SupplyChainBrain and more than 20 years’ experience writing about infrastructure, logistics, and trade, SupplyChainBrain is the blog for the Global Logistics and Supply Chain Strategies Center, citing the President and chief executive officer of the Eno Center for Transportation, “Transportation Funding 2: Gridlock on the congressional Gridiron,” January 2nd, 2013, SupplyChainBrain, http://www.supplychainbrain.com/content/blogs/think-tank/blog/article/transport-funding-2-gridlock-on-the-congressional-gridiron-1/]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The holidays are supposed to be a time of joy, but</span> <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">given the state</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">another way to generate the money needed to address our nation’s infrastructure crisis.</span>


**Political capital key to passage**
**Dallas Morning News 1/2** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[01/02/2013, Dallas Morning News, “Editorial: Actions must match Obama’s immigration pledge,”[[http://www.dallasnews.com/opinion/editorials/20130102-editorial-actions-must-match-obamas-immigration-pledge.ece]]]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">President Barack Obama said all the right things Sunday about immigration reform.</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The president</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">done.” President Barack Obama, in an interview on Meet the Press Sunday</span>

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Immigration reform solves Latin American instability</span>**
**Gittelson 09**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Citation: 23 Notre Dame J.L. Ethics & Pub. Pol'y 115 2009 THE CENTRISTS AGAINST THE IDEOLOGUES: WHAT ARE THE FALSEHOODS THAT DIVIDE AMERICANS ON THE ISSUE OF COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION REFORM Robert Gittelson has been a garment manufacturer in the Los Angeles area for over twenty-five years. His wife, Patricia Gittelson, is an immigration attorney with offices in Van Nuys and Oxnard, California. Robert also works closely with Patricia on the administrative side of her immigration practice. Throughout his career, Mr. Gittelson has developed practical, first-hand experience in dealing with the immigration issues that are challenging our country today)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the alternative, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">should we fail to pass CIR, and instead opt to</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of cooperation can we expect in our battle to secure our southern border</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">?</span>

**Instability escalates to extinction**
**Manwaring 05**
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">(Max G., Retired U.S. Army colonel and an Adjunct Professor of International Politics at Dickinson College, venezuela’s hugo chávez, bolivarian socialism, and asymmetric warfare, October 2005, pg. PUB628.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">President Chávez also understands that the process leading to</span>state failure is the most dangerous
AND
and their associated problems endanger global security, peace, and prosperity.65

==2NC UQ== 
**Republicans would say yes but sustained push from Obama is key**
**Roff 1/15** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[15 January 2013, Peter Roff, contributing editor at U.S. News & World Report. Formerly a senior political writer for United Press International, he’s now affiliated with several public policy organizations including Let Freedom Ring, and Frontiers of Freedom. “Marco Rubio's Immigration Plan Offers Real Promise,” http://www.usnews.com/opinion/blogs/peter-roff/2013/01/15/marco-rubios-immigration-plan-offers-real-promise, AZhang]</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Florida Sen. Marco </span>Rubio<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> has walked up to the third rail of Republican primary</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the state's growing Latino population off to Republicans for at least a generation.</span>

**Immigration reform is top of the docket and Obama is pushing—it’s making progress now:**
Alexander <span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Bolton, 4/9/2013**</span> (staff writer, “Gang of Eight aiming to unveil immigration reform bill Thursday,” [[http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/292679-senators-aiming-to-unveil-immigration-reform-bill-by-thursday#ixzz2QGLq6Cja|http://thehill.com/homenews/senate/292679-senators-aiming-to-unveil-immigration-reform-bill-by-thursday#ixzz2QGLq6Cja]], Accessed 4/24/2013, rwg)
A bipartisan group of House negotiators<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, meanwhile, </span>continues to make progress on its
AND
and other immigration reform advocates are //eager to seize the rare political opening.//
==2NC Econ Impact== 
**Disad turns the case— Comprehensive immigration reform generates a massive economic multiplier effect**
**Ojeda ’12** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Raúl Hinojosa-Ojeda, Founding Director of the North American Integration and Development Center at the University of California, “The Economic Benefits of Comprehensive Immigration Reform,” 189-191, http://www.cato.org/sites/cato.org/files/serials/files/cato-journal/2012/1/cj32n1-12.pdf, AZhang] </span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The results of our modeling suggest that comprehensive immigration </span>reform would increase <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">U.S</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">middle-class growth, and a stronger, more equitable national economy.</span>
==AT: Thumpers (State TOC)== 
**Border controls being resolved – top of the agenda in the House right now, Sandy doesn’t apply**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Silverleib 3-28</span>**. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Alan, CNN Congressional Producer, "Immigration tops agenda as senators tour border" CNN Newswire -- www.12newsnow.com/story/21819421/immigration-tops-agenda-as-senators-tour-border]</span>

//Immigration tops agenda//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">as senators tour border A bipartisan group of</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> U.S. </span>
AND
is <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">also </span>working on a <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">revamped </span>guest worker program<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the source noted.</span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Links</span>== 
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Bering Strait</span>=== 
**The plan would cause a massive political firestorm—it’s viewed as a ridiculous pork project:**
Yereth **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rosen</span>**, 7/25/20**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">06</span>** (staff writer, “How pet projects in Alaska became pet peeve on Hill,”
[[http://www.csmonitor.com/2006/0725/p01s04-uspo.html]], Accessed 10/15/2012, rwg)
Thomas Pease's flower-scented backyard might seem to be an odd place for a
AND
opponent Emily Ferry<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">coordinator of the Alaska Transportation Priorities Project in Juneau.</span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Generic</span>=== 
**GOP backlashes against TI investment**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post 2/11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/2013 “Is Congress really going to miss its free lunch on infrastructure?”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/wonkblog/wp/2013/02/11/is-congress-really-going-to-miss-its-free-lunch-on-infrastructure/</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Since the election, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">there have been hints that we could be entering a period </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Obama proposed a series of job-creation measures centered around new infrastructure. </span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Inland Waterways</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Inland Waterways costs massive polcap</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">MDA ‘11</span> (Maritime Domain Awareness Information Exchange, government agency for information on maritime affairs)
http://www.mda.gov/2011/12/20/top-ten-news-stories-of-2011/
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">A long-term funding solution for the nation’s aging inland infrastructure remains elusive, </span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">User fees are equally unpopular, with previous proposals being ignored by Congress</span>.

===Icebreakers=== 
**Congress is unlikely to approve building new icebreakers**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Song 11</span>,** Kyung M. Song, writer for Anchorage Daily News, “Lawmakers confront reality of need for expensive icebreakers,” http://www.adn.com/2011/10/10/v-printer/2113279/lawmakers-confront-cold-reality.html
Cantwell argues that with a fleet containing only one currently working icebreaker, the Coast
AND
asked for $39 million in fiscal 2012 for its polar icebreaking program.

==Impacts== 
===Sci Dip=== 
**Entry restrictions undermine science diplomacy**
David **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dickson, 2010</span>** (Director, SciDev.Net). June 28, 2010. “Science in diplomacy: “On tap but not on top”” Accessed Sept 11, 2010 at <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/category/science-diplomacy-conference-2010/]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Europe’s framework programme of research programmes was quoted as a successful advantage of the first</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__seen as helping to find ways to ease the burdens of such restrictions.__**

**Visa entry barriers to the US undermine US science diplomacy:**
David **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dickson, 2010</span>** (Director, SciDev.Net). June 24, 2010. “Science diplomacy: easier said than done.” Accessed Sept. 12, 2010 at http://scidevnet.wordpress.com/2010/06/24/science-diplomacy-easier-said-than-done/
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the discussion that followed, </span>**__it became clear that these barriers are likely to__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">they will be able to get back in,” was one typical comment.</span>

===India Coop=== 
**Immigration reform bolsters US-Indian cooperation:**
Tanvi **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Madan, 1/17/2013</span>** (fellow in the <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://2012authoring.webprodauth.brookings.edu/about/programs/foreign-policy|Foreign Policy]]</span> program at the Brookings Institution, “The India Investment,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.brookings.edu/research/papers/2013/01/the-india-investment]]</span>, Accessed 1/20/2013, rwg)
**__While diplomatic, defense and economic engagement get the most attention,__** **__cooperation elsewhere could__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the energy infrastructure sector in India to greater U.S. investment.</span>

**US-India relations are relevant to every foreign policy challenge facing the United States—strong relations solve all their terminal impacts:**
Ashley J. **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tellis, 2009</span>** (Asia Society Task Force). “Delivering on the Promise: Advancing U.S. relations with India.” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.carnegieendowment.org/publications/index.cfm?fa=view&id=22643]]</span>
**__India matters to virtually every major foreign policy issue that will confront the U__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">nited </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">tates</span>
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">we must set broad yet realistic goals to be shared by both countries.</span>
===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Food Prices</span>=== 
**Immigration reform key to a sustainable food supply & checking high food prices:**
Georgia **<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rubenstein, 2009</span>** (staff writer, “Sustainable Food Requires Sustainable Immigration Reform,” <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.themix.coop/?q=node/850]]</span>, Accessed 1/24/2013, rwg)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">I’ve been a Land Stewardship Project (LSP) member for several years because I</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__a move in the opposite direction of a local, sustainable food system__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**Food price increases threaten 1.1 billion people**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Power, 1996</span>** staff, Tampa Tribune, January 20, 1996, Lexis
"__Even if they are merely blips, **higher international prices can hurt poor countries**__
__AND__
-income countries already spend more than half of their income on food.
==PC Key== 
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Bush proves – Obama’s political capital key to reform</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AFP 4-25,</span>** <span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 9pt;">Agence France-Presse, Oldest news agency in the world and one of the largest with Associated Press and Reuters (“Obama invokes Bush to push immigration overhaul” http://www.globalpost.com/dispatch/news/afp/130425/obama-invokes-bush-push-immigration-overhaul)</span>

__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">US President Barack Obama on Thursday enlisted George W. Bush in his drive for </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Georgia;">tests the political winds with comprehensive legislation soon to come to the floor.</span>__
==AT: Boston Bombing== 
**Boston bombings haven’t slowed immigration push—just as much a reason for reform as against it:**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Caren </span><span style="font-size: 13pt;">**Bohan**, **4/24/**2013</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;"> (staff writer, “Immigration Reform Push Splits Republicans, Blunting Rebranding,” [[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2013/04/24/immigration-reform-republicans_n_3145371.html]], Accessed 4/25/2013, rwg)</span>
The bomb attack at the Boston Marathon<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> last week that was allegedly carried out by </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
the Boston bombing showed the need to fix and modernize the immigration system.
==AT: Winners Win== 

**Winners lose.**
**Mann, ‘93**
[Thomas, Director, Governmental Studies program, Brookings Institution. Co-Director, AEI-Brookings Renewing Congress Project. Former Aid to Reagan, Beyond Gridlock: Prospects for Governance in the Clinton Years – and After. Editor James L. Sundquist]
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Most representatives and senators do not feel beholden to any president,</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">let alone one </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the next vote to show that I am independent of the White House."</span>

**Everything Obamas done proves.**
**Jacobson, ‘11**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Gary C. Jacobson is distinguished professor of political science at the University of California, San Diego. He specializes in the study of U.S. elections, parties, Congress, and public opinion; “Legislative Success and Political Failure: The Public’s Reaction to Barack Obama’s Early Presidency.” Presidential Studies Quarterly 41, no. 2 (June)]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The</span>idea <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">that a president’s legislative and political success go hand in hand </span>is starkly
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">a majority party that had won a sweeping victory just two years earlier.</span>


==**AT: Theory**== 
**Capital is an intrinsic resource that sets the parameters of the President’s agenda**
**__Light, Brookings Governance Studies senior fellow, 99__**
[Paul Light, Senior Fellow of Governance Studies, Director of the Center for Public Service the President’s Agenda: Domestic Policy Choice from Kennedy to Clinton, 3rd Edition p. 34 EJONES]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In chapter 2, I will consider just how capital affects the basic parameters of</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the President’s personality, capital is the central force behind the domestic agenda.</span>

**Politics tests a key opportunity cost**
**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">Saideman</span>__**, associate professor of political science - McGill University, 7/25/**__<span style="font-family: Arial; font-size: 12pt;">’11</span>__**
(Steve, “Key Constraint on Policy Relevance,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://duckofminerva.blogspot.com/2011/07/key-]]</span>constraint-on-policy-relevance.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Dan Drezner has a great post today about how </span>**__the foreign policy smart set__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
**__dream about__** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">the right </span>**__policy and gnash our teeth when it never happens.__**

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Steel Tradeoff DA</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">A. Uniqueness— China’s steel production and market output is growing – </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">infrastructure</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> is key</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">WSJ 5/28</span>** [Wall Street Journal, Liam Denning, “Steeling for a Chinese slowdown” May 28, 2012, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/wall-street-journal/steeling-for-a-chinese-slowdown/story-fnay3x58-1226369452287]]</span>, accessed 6/24/12]
China's steel industry has churned out more than two million tonnes a day so far
AND
forward growth, and analysts are predicting more spending on social housing too.

**The steel for __federal__ transportation projects is legally required to come from the U.S.**
**Department of Transportation 10** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Current list of provisions of the Buy America Act, 14 December 2010, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dot.gov/buyamerica/buy_america_.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>
__American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Section 1605 – Buy American (100</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-U.S. Agreement on Government Procurement) do not apply.</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">That massively dents China’s growing market share, the backbone of Chinese economic growth</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Haley, ‘9</span>** – George T., PhD, Professor & Director, Center for International Industry Competitiveness, College of Business, University of New Haven, “Testimony before the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission Hearing: China’s Industrial Policy and its Impact on U.S. Companies, Workers and the American Economy,” March 24, 2009, http://www.uscc.gov/hearings/2009hearings/written_testimonies/09_03_24_wrts/09_03_24_haley_statement.php
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">What impact has China’s support of its pillar industries had on U.S.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. based </span>capacity<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> and shifted production and employment overseas to remain price competitive.</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Stalled Chinese growth causes CCP lashout**</span>
**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Shirk, ‘7</span>.** director of the University of California system-wide Institute on Global Conflict and Cooperation and Ho Miu Lam professor of China and Pacific Relations at IR/PS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of East Asia and Pacific Affairs (Susan, Fragile China, pg 3).
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">As China’s leaders well know, </span><span style="font-family: Georgia;">the greatest political risk lying ahead of them is</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">because from their point of view not lashing out might endanger Party rule.”</span>

**<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Lashout would include nuclear and bio weapons</span>**
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">**Renxing, ‘5** (San, The Epoch Times "The CCP's Last-ditch Gamble: Biological and Nuclear War. Hundreds of millions of deaths proposed", 8/5, http://en.epochtimes.com/news/5-8-5/30931.html)</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">Since the Party’s life is “above all else,” it would not be surprising</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia; font-size: 8pt;">to cling to life. That is the main theme of the speeches.</span>
=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">Obama Good DA</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 

**A. Uniqueness— Obama will win, but it’s close— polls are tightening in key swing states**
**Blumenthal 10/3**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Blumenthal (senior polling editor) 10/3/2012 HUFFINGTON POST “Presidential Polls show Tightening in Florida and Virgina” </span><span style="background-color: initial; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/03/presidential-polls-florida-virginia_n_1935206.html]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As President Barack Obama and Republican nominee Mitt Romney prepare to face off in their</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">three percentage points. Virginia remains in the "lean Obama" range.</span>

**B. Link— Infrastructure investment NOW is unpopular—Americans unwilling to pay**
**Alden 6/14—**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Bernard L. Schwartz Senior Fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, (Edward, “The First Renewing America Progress Report and Scorecard: The Road to Nowhere” 6/14/12, CFR, http://blogs.cfr.org/renewing-america/2012/06/14/the-first-renewing-america-progress-report-and-scorecard-the-road-to-nowhere/]</span>
__Americans understood this once upon a time, building the most impressive network of roads__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">taxpayer) money into new projects have been unable to get through Congress.</span>

**Public hates space programs**
**Conley’10**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Richard Conley, University of Florida-Department of Political Science “The Perils of Presidential Leadership on Space policy: The Politics of congressional budgeting for NASA” http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1642810)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Although public support for NASA has generally been strong (Launius 2003), the segment</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__narrow community which does not garner much public, hence political, support.”__

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**C. Internal Link— Obama will get the blame**</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**Polman 6/13** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dick Polman, staff to Columbia Dispatch, “GOP Strategy: Block Obama then Blame Him,” 6/13/12, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: windowtext; font-size: 8pt; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.dispatch.com/content/stories/editorials/2012/06/13/gop-strategy-block-obama-then-blame-him.html]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">) NA</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The </span>__Republicans’ 2012 election strategy is perversely brilliant: Sabotage President Barack Obama’s job-__
__AND__
__only congressional Republicans hadn’t dynamited it.__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yes, sabotage indeed was required</span>__.__
__Republicans knew their prospects for beating Obama would be damaged if they signed on to__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Give it to me.” Fairly or not, he has it.</span>

**D. Impact— Romney election results in Iran strikes --- Obama reelection defuses the situation with diplomacy**
**Daily Kos**, **4/16** (President Obama versus Romney on Iran, p. <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.dailykos.com/story/2012/04/16/1083726/-President-Obama-versus-Romney-on-Iran]]</span>)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">3. Approach to foreign policy: </span>Romney<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> says he will “not apologize”</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, without bragging, and scaring the American people with needless terrorism alerts.</span>

**Iran Israel war causes extinction**
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Hirsch 5 - Professor @ UC San Diego</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jorge, “Can a nuclear strike on Iran be averted,” November 21st, EMM - BRW)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Bush administration has put together all the elements it needs to justify the impending</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">of the Hiroshima bomb, </span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">enough to erase Earth's population many times over.</span>__

=<span style="font-size: 1.1em;">**Weaponization DA**</span>= 
==<span style="font-size: 1.066em;">**1NC Shell**</span>== 
**Obama is pursuing space cooperation – US multilateral leadership is creating a framework against weaponization**

**Huntley, 11** - senior lecturer in the National Security Affairs department at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California (Wade, “The 2011 U.S. National Space Security Policy: Engagement as a Work in Progress”, Disarmament Times, Spring, <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://disarm.igc.org/index.php?option=com_content&view=article&id=429:the-2011-us-national-space-security-policy-engagement-as-a-work-in-progress&catid=154:disarmament-times-spring-2011&Itemid=2]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">As is well understood, the space policies of the Bush administration were decidedly oriented</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">remain to be developed.18 Many devils may lurk in these details.</span>

**Increasing Space Elevators will destroy the commitment to the new Obama National Space Policy**
**Dant, 11** - chief of staff of the Air Force fellow and the director of space policy for the under secretary of defense for policy (Daniel, High Frontier, February, " The National Space Policy: Sustainability and Cooperation in a Congested, Competitive, and Contested Domain,” <span style="background-color: initial;">[[http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110224-052.pdf]]</span>)

**Cooperation for contested and competitive domain.** __The NSP also recommits us to cooperate in__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">space to active leadership of the coalition of responsible space-faring nations</span>

**Multilateral cooperation against weaponization is vital to preventing miscalculation, first strike incentives and global war**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Hitchens, 8</span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;"> – president of the Center for Defense Information (Theresa, “Space Wars - Coming to the Sky Near You?”, Scientific American, February, </span><span style="background-color: initial; color: #0d0d0d; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.sciam.com/article.cfm?id=space-wars-coming-to-the-sky-near-you]]</span><span style="color: #0d0d0d;">)</span>

__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Perhaps of even greater concern is that several other nations, including one of China’s</span>__
__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">AND</span>__
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">lasted half a century. The likely alternative would be unacceptable to all.</span>