[[toc]]
=Most Recent 1AC= 
The most recent 1AC we've read for LNG Exports is the **NDCA 1AC** below:

==Plan== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of liquefied natural gas.

==Contention 1 is Solvency== 
Plan is the key to LNG exports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
No barriers besides the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
All applications will be aproved
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winston</span>, writer for Platts Inside F.E.R.C., 7/9/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Kate, “Despite DOE permit hiatus, Oregon LNG seeks to start FERC pre-filing for export plan,” Lexis)
Fourteen companies have … for Oregon LNG]
Export application approval inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Geman,</span> The Hill, 12-9-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span> (Ben, “Shell’s US chief sees Obama approving ‘phased’ natural-gas exports,” 12-9-12, http:~/~/thehill.com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/271829-com/blogs/e2-wire/e2-wire/271829-shells-us-chief-sees-obama-blessing-phased-gas-exports, accessed 12-24-12)
Marvin Odum, the … the United States.
Federal investment is key
Davy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
AND – Others decimate the industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should the .. options are limited.
==Contention 2 is Warming== 
US natural gas market will crash without the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hulbert 12 </span>Hulbert, Lead Analyst at European Energy Review, and Goldthau, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Central European University, an American graduate school based in Budapest, Hungary, 8-5-12
(Matthew, consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations, and Andreas, prior to joining CEU, he worked for Rand, SWP Germany and the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a Fellow with the Global Public Policy Institute’s Global Energy Governance program and an Adjunct Professor with Johns Hopkins University’s MSc in Energy Policy and Climate, “Why America Can Make or Break A New Global Gas World,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/05/why-america-can-make-or-break-a-new-global-gas-world/print/)

The same debate … oil indexation back.
That makes warming inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bryce 12 </span>Bryce, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, 7-17-12
(Robert, “Inside the strange world of 'green energy' politics and how it's ruining the US,” http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/07/17/inside-strange-world-green-energy-politics-and-how-it-ruining-us/)

The United States … fast the transition.”
Exports are key—renewables fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Riley 12 </span>Riley, professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London, 8-13-12
(Alan, “Shale Gas to the Climate Rescue,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/opinion/shale-gas-to-the-climate-rescue.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)

The battle against … with shale gas.
Global warming is anthropogenic and will cause extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hansen 12 </span>James Hansen, PHD, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, May 9, 2012, “Game Over for the Climate”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss]]</span>,

GLOBAL warming isn’t … by coming generations.

==Contention 3 is Trade== 
Free trade on the brink now—US leadership key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Suominen 12</span>, resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington, 7-6-12
(Kati, “America the Absent,” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=full]]) KENTUCKY
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In the 20th century, …</span> is <span style="font-size: 7pt;">again </span>essential<span style="font-size: 7pt;">. </span>
The Panama expansion will fundamentally change sea-trade—ports require new dredging for post-Panamax ships
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bridges 11 –</span>Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority (Jerry A., “Testimony of Jerry A. Bridges Chairman of the Board of the American Association of Port Authorities and Executive Director of Virginia Port Authority before the United States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee Hearing: the Economic importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?” , October 26, 2011, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)//MM|__http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Bridges.pdf__]]</span>[[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Darcy.pdf)//MM|)//MM]]

Since the birth … We cannot wait.
Federal port infrastructure funding is increasing but not for dredging—the federal government’s uncertain commitment prevents new projects
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Szakonyi 12</span>— associate editor of the Journal of Commerce (Mark, “The Hill Ramping Up Dredging Efforts”, Journal of Commerce, 5/7, ProQuest) EL

The push by … long-term decisions.
Free trade solves war, but it’s on the decline now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carafano, 12</span> James Jay Carafano, Ph.D. senior research fellow for national security at the Heritage Foundation. “More Free Markets Will Mean Fewer Wars,” <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2012/01/more-free-markets-will-mean-fewer-wars%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.heritage.org/research/commentary/2012/01/more-free-markets-will-mean-fewer-wars Accessed 6/30/12]]</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Sir Ralph Norman …</span> a bumper sticker.
Studies prove
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griswold, 11</span> Daniel Griswold is director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute and author of Mad about Trade: Why Main Street America Should Embrace Globalization. “Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal Vol. 9 [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20Accessed%206/30/12|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf Accessed 6/30/12]]

Our<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> more </span>globalized …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> conflict and war.</span>
Independently, the plan creates energy interdependence—that solves war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hagel 12 </span>[Chuck Hagel, Professor at Georgetown University, “The Challenge of Change”, 5/15/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/challenge-change]]</span>]
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">A new world …</span> and increase prices.

Plan creates US trade leadership
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bookman, 96</span> – Director, Marine Institute, National Research Council (Charles, Fall 1996, “U.S. seaports: At the crossroads of the global economy,” Issues in Science and Technology, 13. 1 (Fall 1996): 71, ProQuest)
Shallow, congested<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;">, and </span>…<span style="font-family: Times; font-size: 5pt;"> a national scale. </span>
That solves nuclear war and protectionism
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I can sum …</span> So does America.
Protectionism causes global, nuclear wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panzner 8</span> – faculty at the New York Institute of Finance, 25-year veteran of the global stock, bond, and currency markets who has worked in New York and London for HSBC, Soros Funds, ABN Amro, Dresdner Bank, and JPMorgan Chase (Michael, “Financial Armageddon: Protect Your Future from Economic Collapse,” p. 136-138)

Continuing calls for … new world war.
AND Plan solves econ
FIRST foreign customers—Fed commitment retains them
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Calhoun 11</span>-- President of Cargo Carriers (Cargill) and Chairman of Waterways Council, Inc (Rick, “DREDGING FOR PROSPERITY”, Marine Log, August, ProQuest, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://proxy.lib.umich.edu/login?url=http://search.proquest.com.proxy.lib.umich.edu/docview/889143450?accountid=14667]]</span>”) EL

Just like the … waterways transportation system.
SECOND Exports make the economy sustainable and solve the trade deficit—without this, econ recovery fails even with increased GDP
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Istrate et al, 10</span> -- senior research analyst and associate fellow with the Metropolitan Infrastructure Initiative (Emilia, "Export Nation: How U.S. Metros Lead National Export Growth and Boost Competitiveness", July, Brookings, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2010/7/26%20mountain%20exports%20muro/0726_exports_istrate_rothwell_katz.pdf]])

Exports Could Contribute … many long-standing difficulties.
THIRD Seaport competitiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nagle, 11 </span>--- president and chief executive officer of the American Association of Port Authorities (December 2011, Kurt, Industry Today, “Association: American Association of Port Authorities; Port-Related Infrastructure Investments Can Reap Dividends,” vol. 14, no. 3, http://www.industrytoday.com/article_view.asp?ArticleID=F370)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">It seems </span>the …<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> federal navigation channels.</span>
FOURTH LNG exports
Matthew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo,</span> Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, 20<span style="font-size: 13pt;">12</span>, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, [[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]], KENTUCKY

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo 12 </span>Matthew DiLallo, Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, 2012, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]]</span>,

News hit the …must be approved.

Econ decline causes global wars—studies and empirics
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Less intuitive is … deserves more attention. </span>
And – growth solves famine
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mahder 8</span> (Ethiopian Development Website, “Addressing the root cause of famine and poverty in Ethiopia,” September 27, 2008, http://mahder.com/pdf/Addressing_the_root_cause_of_famine_and_poverty_in_Ethiopia..pdf, AD: 7-6-9)
It is well … famine is necessary.
Nuclear war
Matt <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Savinar</span>, JD, Geopolitical expert on the environment, Degree in Political Science @ U of Cali, quoted extensively on the floor of the United States Congress His website, LifeAftertheOilCrash.net is assigned reading in multiple university courses around the world. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">04 </span>[“The peak Oil and Die-off,” http://www.Unicamp.br/fea/Ortega/eco/traducau_DieOff.pdf] KENTUCKY
Remember that in … amount of killing.276 
Dredging is key US economic leadership
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kiefer 2K </span>– principal investigator for Planning and Management Consultants– study authorized by Section 401 of the Water Resources Development Act of 1999, report to the US Army Corps of Engineers (Jack, Planning and Management Consultants, “The National Dredging Needs Study of Ports and Harbors Implications to Cost-Sharing of Federal Deep Draft Navigation Projects Due to Changes in the Maritime Industry”, May 2000, [[http://www.iwr.usace.army.mil/docs/iwrreports/00-R-8.pdf]])

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">2.2.2 Other Tangible Benefits … of coastal states. </span>
The alternative is mercantilism, which destroys economic cooperation and causes protectionism
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Posen 9</span> – Deputy director and senior fellow of the Peterson Institute for International Economics (Adam, “Economic leadership beyond the crisis,” http://clients.squareeye.com/uploads/foresight/documents/PN%20USA_FINAL_LR_1.pdf)

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In the postwar …following priority measures.</span>

=1ACs= 
==Michigan Round 3 1AC== 
NOTE: The order of the cards is different than what we read in Round 3. Most of the LNG-specific cards were on the Solvency contention since it was a new aff, but the re-structuring on the wiki makes it clearer. No cards were added or removed. If you want the order of the cards from Round 3, cite request me. Thanks!

===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of Liquefied Natural Gas.

===Advantage One is Eurasia=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globally, bilateral trade agreements are inevitable. However, the US is losing out – reinvigorated support for US-based FTAs solidifies our global trade leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 11</span> (Rod, Editor – Feedstuffs, “US Trade Leadership Slipping,” Feedstuffs Food Link, 6-24, http://www.feedstuffsfoodlink.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=news&mod=News&mid=9A02E3B96F2A415ABC72CB5F516B4C10&tier=3&nid=FAA1AC2A45944313AAC3C0F446B2E2C4)

THE number of … in the world.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US trade leadership solves nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)

I can sum … So does America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global export contracts are being renegotiated – now is key to get the US in the LNG export game</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).

LNG exports will … online by 2020.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent LNG exports, China will win tougher restrictions on rare earth exports</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levi 12</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow for Energy and Environment – Council on Foreign Relations, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” Hamilton Project – Brookings Institute, June, Discussion Paper 2012-04, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi)

Potential U.S. exports … rare earth metals.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China will price the US out of the rare earth mineral market by the end of 2012 – collapsing civilization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 10</span> (Mike, Editor – NaturalNews, “Global Supply of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out by 2012”, 1-26, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]]</span>)

It's the bubble …western civilization rests.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of no rare earth minerals causes nuclear conflcit</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Caves 10</span> (John P. Jr., Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction – National Defense University, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, Strategic Forum, No. 252, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/docUploaded/SF%20252_John%20Caves.pdf)

Perceptions of a … alone could inflict.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And --- price-out crushes hard power in Eurasia </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richardson 10</span> (Michael, Visiting Senior Research Fellow – Institute of South East Asian Studies (Singapore), “China’s Chokehold on Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns”, 10-8, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals)

Yet China could … of the delays.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That means nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walton 7</span> (C. Dale, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies – University of Reading, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49)

Obviously, it is … great power alliances.


===Advantage Two is the Asia Pivot=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gas exports key to Obama commitment to Asia pivot</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger, </span>Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, ‘12</span>
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]], accessed 8-17-12) PM

We predict that … to Asia" policy.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Exports are key – otherwise energy demand will drive the US back to the Middle East</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palti-</span>Guzman, global energy analyst at Eurasia Review, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9-13</span>-12
(Leslie, “Should the U.S. Export Natural Gas?” 9-13-12, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444226904577561300198957854.html]], accessed 10-1-12) PM

There is no … help key allies.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Successful pivot is key to solve Asian conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg, </span>Princeton IA professor,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 9-4-11</span>
(Aaron L., “China’s Challenge at Sea,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/opinion/chinas-challenge-at-sea.html?_r=1, accessed 9-30-11, CMM)

If the United … it must lead.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China conflict escalates to nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser, </span>GW University Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 11 </span>
(Charles, HARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University., "Will China's Rise Lead to War? ", Foreign Affairs, Mar/April 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 2, factiva, accessed 11-9-11, CMM)


The prospects for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also solves Asian arms race</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blumenthal </span>et al, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, 9-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6-11</span>
(Dan, member of the Project 2049 Institute’s Board of Advisors, was senior director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolia in the Secretary of Defense's Office of International Security Affairs; Mark Stokes is executive director of the Project 2049 Institute; Michael Mazza is a senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI; Foreign Policy, “Avoiding Armageddon with China,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/09/06/avoiding_armageddon_with_china, accessed 9-7-11, CMM)

The paper argues … lead to Armageddon.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arms race leads to global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cimbala, </span>Penn State Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 10</span>
(Steven, Nuclear weapons and cooperative security in the 21st century: the new disorder, p. 117-118, ES)

Failure to contain … a mistaken preemption.

===Solvency=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key to solve – anything else decimates the market</span>**
Davy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key --- private and local action decimates the industry</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should … options are limited.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal resolve is key to the - Maritime industry—it will collapse without the plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

America´s deep-draft navigation … lose its efficiencies.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Loss of effective ship building industry causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)

If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves – liquefactions plants are export plants</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 9-5-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is the CRUCIAL internal link </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No barriers to LNG exports besides the plan</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports solves and avoids the turns </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rascoe, </span>Reuters,6-27<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Ayesha, “US should be open to crude oil exports-EIA head,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/27/usa-oil-exports-idUSL2E8HRDY320120627, accessed 6-27-12, CMM)

Sieminski's comments come … earlier this month.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Export restrictions will be removed – plan is key to economic growth</span>**
Matthew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo,</span> Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, [[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]], KENTUCKY

News hit the … must be approved.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is … deserves more attention.

==Michigan Round 5 1AC== 

NOTE: I'm putting up the whole 1AC because that's easier but here are the changes from Round 3:
Took out Caves on Eurasia Advantage
Added Kennedy 10 and Lieber and Press 9

===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of Liquefied Natural Gas.

===Advantage One is Eurasia=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globally, bilateral trade agreements are inevitable. However, the US is losing out – reinvigorated support for US-based FTAs solidifies our global trade leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 11</span> (Rod, Editor – Feedstuffs, “US Trade Leadership Slipping,” Feedstuffs Food Link, 6-24, http://www.feedstuffsfoodlink.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=news&mod=News&mid=9A02E3B96F2A415ABC72CB5F516B4C10&tier=3&nid=FAA1AC2A45944313AAC3C0F446B2E2C4)

THE number of … in the world.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US trade leadership solves nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)

I can sum … So does America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global export contracts are being renegotiated – now is key to get the US in the LNG export game</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).

LNG exports will … online by 2020.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent LNG exports, China will win tougher restrictions on rare earth exports</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levi 12</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow for Energy and Environment – Council on Foreign Relations, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” Hamilton Project – Brookings Institute, June, Discussion Paper 2012-04, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi)

Potential U.S. exports … rare earth metals.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China will price the US out of the rare earth mineral market by the end of 2012 – collapsing civilization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 10</span> (Mike, Editor – NaturalNews, “Global Supply of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out by 2012”, 1-26, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]]</span>)

It's the bubble …western civilization rests.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of no rare earth minerals causes nuclear conflcit</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Caves 10</span> (John P. Jr., Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction – National Defense University, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, Strategic Forum, No. 252, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/docUploaded/SF%20252_John%20Caves.pdf)

Perceptions of a … alone could inflict.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And --- price-out crushes hard power in Eurasia</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richardson 10</span> (Michael, Visiting Senior Research Fellow – Institute of South East Asian Studies (Singapore), “China’s Chokehold on Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns”, 10-8, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals)

Yet China could … of the delays.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That means nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walton 7</span> (C. Dale, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies – University of Reading, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49)

Obviously, it is … great power alliances.

**Rare earth access is key to first-strike missile guidance**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kennedy 10</span> (J., President – Wings Enterprise, “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources”, March, http://www.smenet.org/rareEarthsProject/TMS-NMAB-paperV-3.pdf)

The national defense … free trade vii.”


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Future conflicts are inevitable and will draw-in the U.S. --- effective guidance is key to prevent escalation and nuclear war in Korea, Taiwan, and the Mideast</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press 9</span> (Keir A., Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program – Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government – Dartmouth College, “The Nukes We Need”, Foreign Affairs, November/December, 88(6), Ebsco)

Unfortunately, deterrence in … nuclear counter-force capability.

===Advantage Two is the Asia Pivot=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gas exports key to Obama commitment to Asia pivot</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger, </span>Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, ‘12</span>
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]], accessed 8-17-12) PM

We predict that … to Asia" policy.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Exports are key – otherwise energy demand will drive the US back to the Middle East</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palti-</span>Guzman, global energy analyst at Eurasia Review, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9-13</span>-12
(Leslie, “Should the U.S. Export Natural Gas?” 9-13-12, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444226904577561300198957854.html]], accessed 10-1-12) PM

There is no … help key allies.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Successful pivot is key to solve Asian conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg, </span>Princeton IA professor,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 9-4-11</span>
(Aaron L., “China’s Challenge at Sea,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/opinion/chinas-challenge-at-sea.html?_r=1, accessed 9-30-11, CMM)

If the United … it must lead.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China conflict escalates to nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser, </span>GW University Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 11</span>
(Charles, HARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University., "Will China's Rise Lead to War? ", Foreign Affairs, Mar/April 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 2, factiva, accessed 11-9-11, CMM)


The prospects for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also solves Asian arms race</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blumenthal </span>et al, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, 9-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6-11</span>
(Dan, member of the Project 2049 Institute’s Board of Advisors, was senior director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolia in the Secretary of Defense's Office of International Security Affairs; Mark Stokes is executive director of the Project 2049 Institute; Michael Mazza is a senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI; Foreign Policy, “Avoiding Armageddon with China,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/09/06/avoiding_armageddon_with_china, accessed 9-7-11, CMM)

The paper argues … lead to Armageddon.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arms race leads to global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cimbala, </span>Penn State Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 10</span>
(Steven, Nuclear weapons and cooperative security in the 21st century: the new disorder, p. 117-118, ES)

Failure to contain … a mistaken preemption.

===Solvency=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key to solve – anything else decimates the market</span>**
Davy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key --- private and local action decimates the industry</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should … options are limited.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves – liquefactions plants are export plants</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 9-5-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is the CRUCIAL internal link</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No barriers to LNG exports besides the plan</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports solves and avoids the turns</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rascoe, </span>Reuters,6-27<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Ayesha, “US should be open to crude oil exports-EIA head,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/27/usa-oil-exports-idUSL2E8HRDY320120627, accessed 6-27-12, CMM)

Sieminski's comments come … earlier this month.



==Michigan Octafinals 1AC== 
===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of Liquefied Natural Gas.

===Advantage One is Eurasia=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globally, bilateral trade agreements are inevitable. However, the US is losing out – reinvigorated support for US-based FTAs solidifies our global trade leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 11</span> (Rod, Editor – Feedstuffs, “US Trade Leadership Slipping,” Feedstuffs Food Link, 6-24, http://www.feedstuffsfoodlink.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=news&mod=News&mid=9A02E3B96F2A415ABC72CB5F516B4C10&tier=3&nid=FAA1AC2A45944313AAC3C0F446B2E2C4)

THE number of … in the world.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US trade leadership solves nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)

I can sum … So does America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global export contracts are being renegotiated – now is key to get the US in the LNG export game</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).

LNG exports will … online by 2020.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent LNG exports, China will win tougher restrictions on rare earth exports</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levi 12</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow for Energy and Environment – Council on Foreign Relations, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” Hamilton Project – Brookings Institute, June, Discussion Paper 2012-04, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi)

Potential U.S. exports … rare earth metals.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China will price the US out of the rare earth mineral market by the end of 2012 – collapsing civilization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 10</span> (Mike, Editor – NaturalNews, “Global Supply of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out by 2012”, 1-26, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]]</span>)

It's the bubble …western civilization rests.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of no rare earth minerals causes nuclear conflcit</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Caves 10</span> (John P. Jr., Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction – National Defense University, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, Strategic Forum, No. 252, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/docUploaded/SF%20252_John%20Caves.pdf)

Perceptions of a … alone could inflict.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And --- price-out crushes hard power in Eurasia</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richardson 10</span> (Michael, Visiting Senior Research Fellow – Institute of South East Asian Studies (Singapore), “China’s Chokehold on Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns”, 10-8, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals)

Yet China could … of the delays.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That means nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walton 7</span> (C. Dale, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies – University of Reading, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49)

Obviously, it is … great power alliances.

===Advantage Two is Ports=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Maritime industry—it will collapse without the plan</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)
America´s deep-draft …lose its efficiencies.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Loss of effective ship building industry causes nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)
If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The Maritime industry is key to naval primacy—it affects every sector of the Navy</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NLUS 5/7/2012</span> (Navy League of the United States, Since 1902, the NLUS has sought to provide a stronger sea voice to Congress and to the American people, “America’s Maritime Industry: the foundation of American seapower.”, http://www.navyleague.org/files/americas-maritime-industry.pdf, Hemanth)
The American Maritime …U.S. maritime superiority.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Naval power solves wars that escalate and terrorism</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eaglen and McGrath ’11</span> (Mackenzie Eaglen is Research Fellow for National Security in the Douglas and Sarah Allison Center for Foreign Policy Studies, a division of the Kathryn and Shelby Cullom Davis Institute for International Studies, at The Heritage Foundation. Bryan McGrath is a retired naval officer and the Director of Delex Consulting, Studies and Analysis in Vienna, Virginia. On active duty, he commanded the destroyer USS Bulkeley (DDG 84) and served as the primary author of the current maritime strategy, “Thinking About a Day Without Sea Power: Implications for U.S. Defense Policy”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: none;">[[http://www.heritage.org/Research/Reports/2011/05/Thinking-About-a-Day-Without-Sea-Power-Implications-for-US-Defense-Policy]]</span>, May 16, 2011
*The scenario described … costs even higher.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Terror is extinction </span>**
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Speice, 6 </span><span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">[Patrick F. Jr.- PhD Candidate at College of William and Mary, “Negligence and Nuclear Nonproliferation,” William & Mary Law Review, 47 Wm and Mary L. Rev. 1427, February]</span>
Accordingly, there is … of nuclear weapons.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ports are key to cotton export competitiveness</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Harris, 7</span> — associate editor at Cotton Grower magazine (Drew, “Paradigm Shift Changes Market For The US Cotton Grower”, May, ProQuest, EL)
Farm Bill legislation … force the issue."
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Specifically, port efficiency is key — only the plan solves</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rossen et al 11</span> – A report prepared under cooperative agreements between the Agricultural Marketing Service and Texas AgriLife Research (Parr, “Impacts of Transportation Infrastructure on the U.S. Cotton Industry”, CNAS, 5/11, http://www.ams.usda.gov/AMSv1.0/getfile?dDocName=STELPRDC5092073)//MM//
//Because the U.S. … U.S. port system.//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The cotton trade is zero-sum — the plan secures US market share at the expense of competitors</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lyford and Welch, 4</span> — assistant professor in the Department of Agricultural and Applied Economics at Texas Tech University, AND, assistant professor and Texas AgriLife Extension Economist in the Department of Agricultural Economics at Texas A&M University (Conrad P. and J. Mark, “Measuring Competition for Textiles: Does the U.S. Make the Grade?”, Texas Tech University, The International Cotton Research Center at Texas Tech University, presented at the Southern Agricultural Economics Association, 2/18/2004, http://ageconsearch.umn.edu/bitstream/34616/1/sp04ly01.pdf, Deech)//
//This study evaluates … 2001, increasing 55%.//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Second is the Uzbek cotton industry — it requires massive irrigation which shrinks the Aral Sea</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EJF, 2k</span> (Environmental Justice Foundation, “The Aral Sea Crisis”, page last modified 7/2/2012, http://www.ejfoundation.org/page146.html, Deech)//
//Once the world's … reach the fields.//
//**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The impact is lethal pandemics – it exposes the worst biological weapons test site to the mainland</span>**//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CNN, 99</span> (“Anthrax time bomb ticking in Aral Sea, researchers say”, 6/21/1999, http://articles.cnn.com/1999-06-21/world/9906_21_anthrax.island_1_ken-alibek-anthrax-spores-vozrozhdeniye?_s=PM:WORLD, Deech)//
//SAN FRANCISCO CNN … population, Tucker said.//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">This risks outbreaks of genetically engineered smallpox that overcomes vaccines</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">O’Sullivan, 5 – </span>Center for Risk and Economic Assessment of Terrorism Events (CREATE) University of Southern California (Terrence, “THE UNCERTAIN DYNAMICS OF GLOBAL BIOTERRORISM: SMALLPOX AS A HYPOTHETICAL CASE FOR RISKS AND RESPONSES” [[http://create.usc.edu/research/50763.pdf)//DH]]//
//Second, and perhaps … against the disease. 17//

//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The spread of genetically engineered smallpox risks extinction</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Posner, 5</span> - professor of law and economics at the University of Chicago (Richard, Skeptic, Winter, “Catastrophe”, proquest)//DH
The smallpox virus …without anyone noticing.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Uzbek Cotton Growth Cause Central Asia War</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Environmental Justice Foundation, 5</span> - UK-Based Non-Profit, ‘5 [White Gold The True Cost of Cotton: Uzbekistan, Cotton and the crushing of a nation, [[http://www.ejfoundation.org/pdf/white_gold_the_true_cost_of_cotton.pdf|www.ejfoundation.org/pdf/white_gold_the_true_cost_of_cotton.pdf]], EL
Regionally, the greatest … be armed conflict” 22

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Central Asian war Causes Global war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Peimani 02 ,</span> Central Asia and Caucasus specialist at the Department of Peace Studies at the University of Bradford, 2002 (Hooman, Failed Transition, Bleak Future: War and Instability in Central Asia and the Caucasus, p. 142-143) EL
The impact of … Asia and Europe

===Solvency=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key to solve – anything else decimates the market</span>**
Davy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key --- private and local action decimates the industry</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should … options are limited.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal resolve is key to the - Maritime industry—it will collapse without the plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

America´s deep-draft navigation … lose its efficiencies.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Loss of effective ship building industry causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)

If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves – liquefactions plants are export plants</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 9-5-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is the CRUCIAL internal link</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No barriers to LNG exports besides the plan</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports solves and avoids the turns</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rascoe, </span>Reuters,6-27<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Ayesha, “US should be open to crude oil exports-EIA head,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/27/usa-oil-exports-idUSL2E8HRDY320120627, accessed 6-27-12, CMM)

Sieminski's comments come … earlier this month.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Export restrictions will be removed – plan is key to economic growth</span>**
Matthew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo,</span> Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, [[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]], KENTUCKY

News hit the … must be approved.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is … deserves more attention.

**All disads are non-unique but don’t solve our aff**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dredging today 7/2</span> (“America’s Seaports Recognized in MAP-21 Surface Transportation Bill Reauthorization”, July 2, 2012, http://www.dredgingtoday.com/2012/07/02/americas-seaports-recognized-in-map-21-surface-transportation-bill-reauthorization/)
With congressional passage … network going forward.”

==Glenbrooks 1AC== 

NOTE: I'm putting up the whole 1AC because that's easier but it's the same 1AC as Michigan Round 5 with the Dredging Today card added at the end of solvency.

===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of Liquefied Natural Gas.

===Advantage One is Eurasia=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Globally, bilateral trade agreements are inevitable. However, the US is losing out – reinvigorated support for US-based FTAs solidifies our global trade leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 11</span> (Rod, Editor – Feedstuffs, “US Trade Leadership Slipping,” Feedstuffs Food Link, 6-24, http://www.feedstuffsfoodlink.com/ME2/dirmod.asp?sid=&nm=&type=news&mod=News&mid=9A02E3B96F2A415ABC72CB5F516B4C10&tier=3&nid=FAA1AC2A45944313AAC3C0F446B2E2C4)

THE number of … in the world.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US trade leadership solves nuclear conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)

I can sum … So does America.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Global export contracts are being renegotiated – now is key to get the US in the LNG export game</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).

LNG exports will … online by 2020.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Absent LNG exports, China will win tougher restrictions on rare earth exports</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levi 12</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow for Energy and Environment – Council on Foreign Relations, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” Hamilton Project – Brookings Institute, June, Discussion Paper 2012-04, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi)

Potential U.S. exports … rare earth metals.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">China will price the US out of the rare earth mineral market by the end of 2012 – collapsing civilization</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 10</span> (Mike, Editor – NaturalNews, “Global Supply of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out by 2012”, 1-26, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]]</span>)

It's the bubble …western civilization rests.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Perception of no rare earth minerals causes nuclear conflcit</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Caves 10</span> (John P. Jr., Senior Research Fellow in the Center for the Study of Weapons of Mass Destruction – National Defense University, “Avoiding a Crisis of Confidence in the U.S. Nuclear Deterrent”, Strategic Forum, No. 252, http://www.ndu.edu/inss/docUploaded/SF%20252_John%20Caves.pdf)

Perceptions of a … alone could inflict.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">And --- price-out crushes hard power in Eurasia</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Richardson 10</span> (Michael, Visiting Senior Research Fellow – Institute of South East Asian Studies (Singapore), “China’s Chokehold on Rare-Earth Minerals Raises Concerns”, 10-8, http://yaleglobal.yale.edu/content/chinas-rare-earth-minerals)

Yet China could … of the delays.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That means nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Walton 7</span> (C. Dale, Lecturer in International Relations and Strategic Studies – University of Reading, Geopolitics and the Great Powers in the 21st Century, p. 49)

Obviously, it is … great power alliances.

**Rare earth access is key to first-strike missile guidance**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kennedy 10</span> (J., President – Wings Enterprise, “Critical and Strategic Failure of Rare Earth Resources”, March, http://www.smenet.org/rareEarthsProject/TMS-NMAB-paperV-3.pdf)

The national defense … free trade vii.”


**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Future conflicts are inevitable and will draw-in the U.S. --- effective guidance is key to prevent escalation and nuclear war in Korea, Taiwan, and the Mideast</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lieber and Press 9</span> (Keir A., Associate Professor in the Security Studies Program – Georgetown University's Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service and Daryl G., Associate Professor of Government – Dartmouth College, “The Nukes We Need”, Foreign Affairs, November/December, 88(6), Ebsco)

Unfortunately, deterrence in … nuclear counter-force capability.

===Advantage Two is the Asia Pivot=== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gas exports key to Obama commitment to Asia pivot</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger, </span>Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, ‘12</span>
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]], accessed 8-17-12) PM

We predict that … to Asia" policy.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Exports are key – otherwise energy demand will drive the US back to the Middle East</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palti-</span>Guzman, global energy analyst at Eurasia Review, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">9-13</span>-12
(Leslie, “Should the U.S. Export Natural Gas?” 9-13-12, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444226904577561300198957854.html]], accessed 10-1-12) PM

There is no … help key allies.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Successful pivot is key to solve Asian conflict</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg, </span>Princeton IA professor,<span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 9-4-11</span>
(Aaron L., “China’s Challenge at Sea,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/opinion/chinas-challenge-at-sea.html?_r=1, accessed 9-30-11, CMM)

If the United … it must lead.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US-China conflict escalates to nuclear war.</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser, </span>GW University Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 11</span>
(Charles, HARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University., "Will China's Rise Lead to War? ", Foreign Affairs, Mar/April 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 2, factiva, accessed 11-9-11, CMM)


The prospects for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Also solves Asian arms race</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blumenthal </span>et al, current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, 9-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">6-11</span>
(Dan, member of the Project 2049 Institute’s Board of Advisors, was senior director for China, Taiwan, and Mongolia in the Secretary of Defense's Office of International Security Affairs; Mark Stokes is executive director of the Project 2049 Institute; Michael Mazza is a senior research associate in foreign and defense policy studies at AEI; Foreign Policy, “Avoiding Armageddon with China,” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/09/06/avoiding_armageddon_with_china, accessed 9-7-11, CMM)

The paper argues … lead to Armageddon.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Arms race leads to global nuclear war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cimbala, </span>Penn State Political Science Professor<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 10</span>
(Steven, Nuclear weapons and cooperative security in the 21st century: the new disorder, p. 117-118, ES)

Failure to contain … a mistaken preemption.

===Solvency=== 


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key to solve – anything else decimates the market</span>**
Davy <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui</span>, Seeking Alpha, March 15, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, [[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]], KENTUCKY

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Federal investment is key --- private and local action decimates the industry</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 09</span>—American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, [[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]) KENTUCKY

Q. Why should … options are limited.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal resolve is key to the - Maritime industry—it will collapse without the plan</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

America´s deep-draft navigation … lose its efficiencies.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Loss of effective ship building industry causes nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)

If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves – liquefactions plants are export plants</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 9-5-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan is the CRUCIAL internal link</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">No barriers to LNG exports besides the plan</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,[[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf|www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf]])

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports solves and avoids the turns</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rascoe, </span>Reuters,6-27<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Ayesha, “US should be open to crude oil exports-EIA head,” http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/06/27/usa-oil-exports-idUSL2E8HRDY320120627, accessed 6-27-12, CMM)

Sieminski's comments come … earlier this month.
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Export restrictions will be removed – plan is key to economic growth</span>**
Matthew <span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo,</span> Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span>, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, [[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]], KENTUCKY

News hit the … must be approved.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Economic decline causes global war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)

Less intuitive is … deserves more attention.

**All disads are non-unique but don’t solve our aff**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dredging today 7/2</span> (“America’s Seaports Recognized in MAP-21 Surface Transportation Bill Reauthorization”, July 2, 2012, http://www.dredgingtoday.com/2012/07/02/americas-seaports-recognized-in-map-21-surface-transportation-bill-reauthorization/)
With congressional passage … network going forward.”

==MBA 1AC== 
Changes from Glenbrooks: Most changes to the Asia advantage (previously called Asia Pivot) are cosmetic only. The trade advantage (previously called Eurasia) still has the trade leadership scenario, but now has the econ scenario (previously on solvency) and has neither the the Rare Earths scenario nor the First Strike scenario. The warming advantage is new.
Solvency has a lot of the same cards, but there are some new cards (especially near the end.)

===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of liquefied natural gas.

===Advantage 1 is Asia=== 
Asia pivot inevitable—LNG key to effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger 12</span>, Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings, ‘12
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]], accessed 8-17-12)

We predict that … to Asia" policy.
Exports key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palti 12 </span>Palti-Guzman 12, global energy analyst at Eurasia Review, 9-13-12
(Leslie, “Should the U.S. Export Natural Gas?” 9-13-12, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444226904577561300198957854.html]], accessed 10-1-12)

There is no …help key allies.
Successful pivot solves China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg 11 </span>Princeton IA professor, 9-4-11
(Aaron L., “China’s Challenge at Sea,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/opinion/chinas-challenge-at-sea.html?_r=1, accessed 9-30-11, )

If the United … it must lead.
Otherwise, it goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser 11 </span>GW University Political Science Professor, 11
(Charles, HARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University., "Will China's Rise Lead to War? ", Foreign Affairs, Mar/April 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 2, factiva, accessed 11-9-11, )


The prospects for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.
Pivot solves prolif
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blumenthal 11</span> ( Dan Blumenthal is a current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, where he directs efforts to monitor, investigate, and provide recommendations on the national security implications of the economic relationship between the two countries. “Avoiding Armageddon with China” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/09/06/avoiding_armageddon_with_china?wpisrc=obinsite ,)
The balancing and … lead to Armageddon.
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cimbala 10 </span>Penn State Political Science Professor, 10
(Steven, Nuclear weapons and cooperative security in the 21st century: the new disorder, p. 117-118)

Failure to contain … a mistaken preemption.

===Advantage 2 is Trade=== 
Free trade on the brink now—US leadership key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Suominen 12</span>, resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington, 7-6-12
(Kati, “America the Absent,” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=full]])
In the 20th … is again essential.
Trade leadership solves nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I can sum …</span> So does America.
Studies prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 5</span> director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute in Washington, 2005 [Daniel. “Peace on Earth? Try Free Trade Among Men.” December 29. http://www.freetrade.org/node/282.]
Buried beneath the … best at home.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LNG key to free trade</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).
LNG exports will … online by 2020.
Also key to energy interdependence, which solves nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hagel 12 </span>[Chuck Hagel, Professor at Georgetown University, “The Challenge of Change”, 5/15/12, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/challenge-change]]</span>]
A new world … and increase prices.
Export approvals are inevitable but the plan is key to exports—that solves growth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo 12 </span>Matthew DiLallo, Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, 2012, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]]</span>,

News hit the …must be approved.
Growth solves famine
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mahder 8</span> (Ethiopian Development Website, “Addressing the root cause of famine and poverty in Ethiopia,” September 27, 2008, http://mahder.com/pdf/Addressing_the_root_cause_of_famine_and_poverty_in_Ethiopia..pdf, AD: 7-6-9)
It is well … famine is necessary.
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Savinar 4 </span>Matt Savinar, JD, Geopolitical expert on the environment, Degree in Political Science @ U of Cali, quoted extensively on the floor of the United States Congress His website, LifeAftertheOilCrash.net is assigned reading in multiple university courses around the world. 04 [“The peak Oil and Die-off,” http://www.Unicamp.br/fea/Ortega/eco/traducau_DieOff.pdf]
Remember that in … amount of killing.276
Econ low now—plan’s key to avoid decline
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erian 12 </span>Mohamed A. El-Erian , Contributing editor is CEO and co-chief investment officer of global investment management firm Pimco and author of When Markets Collide, NOVEMBER 20, 2012, “American Anxiety”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/20/american_anxiety?page=0,0]]</span>,

A few weeks … this uncertain future?
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is … deserves more attention.

Absent the plan, China will impose restrictions on rare earth exports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Levi 12</span> (Michael, Senior Fellow for Energy and Environment – Council on Foreign Relations, “A Strategy for U.S. Natural Gas Exports,” Hamilton Project – Brookings Institute, June, Discussion Paper 2012-04, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/6/13%20exports%20levi/06_exports_levi)
Potential U.S. exports … rare earth metals.
China will price the US out by the end of 2012 – collapsing civilization
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Adams 10</span> (Mike, Editor – NaturalNews, “Global Supply of Rare Earth Elements Could Be Wiped Out by 2012”, 1-26, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.naturalnews.com/028028_rare_earth_elements_mining.html]]</span>)
It's the bubble … western civilization rests.

===Advantage 3 is Warming=== 
US natural gas market will crash without the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hulbert 12 </span>Hulbert, Lead Analyst at European Energy Review, and Goldthau, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Central European University, an American graduate school based in Budapest, Hungary, 8-5-12
(Matthew, consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations, and Andreas, prior to joining CEU, he worked for Rand, SWP Germany and the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a Fellow with the Global Public Policy Institute’s Global Energy Governance program and an Adjunct Professor with Johns Hopkins University’s MSc in Energy Policy and Climate, “Why America Can Make or Break A New Global Gas World,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/05/why-america-can-make-or-break-a-new-global-gas-world/print/)

The same debate … oil indexation’s back.
That makes warming inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bryce 12 </span>Bryce, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, 7-17-12
(Robert, “Inside the strange world of 'green energy' politics and how it's ruining the US,” http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/07/17/inside-strange-world-green-energy-politics-and-how-it-ruining-us/)

The United States … fast the transition.”
Exports are key—renewables fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Riley 12 </span>Riley, professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London, 8-13-12
(Alan, “Shale Gas to the Climate Rescue,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/opinion/shale-gas-to-the-climate-rescue.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)

The battle against … with shale gas.
Global warming is anthropogenic and causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hansen 12 </span>James Hansen, PHD, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, May 9, 2012, “Game Over for the Climate”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss]]</span>,

GLOBAL warming isn’t …by coming generations.

===Solvency=== 
Transportation infrastructure key to exports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
No barriers besides the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
All export applications will be approved
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winston</span>, writer for Platts Inside F.E.R.C., 7/9/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Kate, “Despite DOE permit hiatus, Oregon LNG seeks to start FERC pre-filing for export plan,” Lexis)
Fourteen companies have … for Oregon LNG]
Certain commitment key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Angevine 12 </span>Gerry Angevine and Vanadis Oviedo, Fellows of Fraser Institute of Energy Policy, 2012, “Laying the Groundwork for BC LNG Exports to Asia”, PDF,

Unfortunately, cumbersome regulatory …income and employment.
Federal investment key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui 12 </span>Davy Bui, Seeking Alpha, March 15, 2012, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]]</span>,

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
Anyone but the USfg would decimate the industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 9</span> American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]</span>)

Q. Why should … options are limited.
Federal regulations prevent all other actors
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anderson 11</span> –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (A. Paul, “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf]])

With increasingly larger … is fundamentally broken.
Fed action key to maritime industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

America´s deep-draft navigation … lose its efficiencies.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solves nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)
If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.
Obama is key to success
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lugar 7</span> Richard, US Senator, “U.S. Energy Security and the 2008 Presidential Election,” 12/18,
http://www.brookings.edu/events/2007/~/media/files/events/2007/1218_lugar/20071218_lugar.pdf
Congress and private …procrastination and partisanship.
Infrastructure funded now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/1 </span>Yohan Freemark, Transport Politics, 1/1, “ Openings and Construction Starts Planned for 2013”, <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/]]</span>,

Yet the federal … transit expansion possible.

Electricity price and gas decoupled now
JOHN <span style="font-size: 13pt;">COX </span>Californian staff writer, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/3</span>, “Natural gas rates fall, electric rates rise for PG&E customers”, [[http://www.bakersfieldcalifornian.com/business/x1055275758/Natural-gas-rates-fall-electric-rates-rise-for-PG-E-customers]],
Heating your home … go up soon.
Industry preparing now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span>9-5<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.



==MBA Round 5 1AC== 
Changes from MBA Rounds 1 and 3: Rare Earths scenario was added to the bottom of the trade advantage. Nothing removed.

===Plan=== 
Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure in the United States that supports the export of liquefied natural gas.

===Advantage 1 is Asia=== 
Asia pivot inevitable—LNG key to effectiveness
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger 12</span>, Senior fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative at Brookings, ‘12
(Charles, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for US Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” 5-2-12, [[http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/events/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports/20120502_lng_exports]], accessed 8-17-12)

We predict that … to Asia" policy.
Exports key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Palti 12 </span>Palti-Guzman 12, global energy analyst at Eurasia Review, 9-13-12
(Leslie, “Should the U.S. Export Natural Gas?” 9-13-12, [[http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10000872396390444226904577561300198957854.html]], accessed 10-1-12)

There is no …help key allies.
Successful pivot solves China war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Friedberg 11 </span>Princeton IA professor, 9-4-11
(Aaron L., “China’s Challenge at Sea,” http://www.nytimes.com/2011/09/05/opinion/chinas-challenge-at-sea.html?_r=1, accessed 9-30-11, )

If the United … it must lead.
Otherwise, it goes nuclear
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser 11 </span>GW University Political Science Professor, 11
(Charles, HARLES GLASER is Professor of Political Science and International Affairs and Director of the Institute for Security and Conflict Studies at the Elliott School of International Affairs at George Washington University., "Will China's Rise Lead to War? ", Foreign Affairs, Mar/April 2011, Vol. 90, Issue 2, factiva, accessed 11-9-11, )


The prospects for … of U.S.-Chinese relations.
Pivot solves prolif
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Blumenthal 11</span> ( Dan Blumenthal is a current commissioner and former vice chairman of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, where he directs efforts to monitor, investigate, and provide recommendations on the national security implications of the economic relationship between the two countries. “Avoiding Armageddon with China” http://shadow.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/09/06/avoiding_armageddon_with_china?wpisrc=obinsite ,)
The balancing and … lead to Armageddon.
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Cimbala 10 </span>Penn State Political Science Professor, 10
(Steven, Nuclear weapons and cooperative security in the 21st century: the new disorder, p. 117-118)

Failure to contain … a mistaken preemption.

===Advantage 2 is Trade=== 
Free trade on the brink now—US leadership key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Suominen 12</span>, resident fellow at the German Marshall Fund of the United States in Washington, 7-6-12
(Kati, “America the Absent,” [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/07/06/america_the_absent?page=full]])
In the 20th … is again essential.
Trade leadership solves nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Panitchpakdi 4</span> (DG Supachai, Former Director-General – World Trade Organization, “American Leadership and the World Trade Organization: What is the Alternative?”, National Press Club, 2-26, http://www.wto.org/french/ news_f/spsp_f/spsp22_f.htm)
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">I can sum …</span> So does America.
Studies prove
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Griswold 5</span> director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at the Cato Institute in Washington, 2005 [Daniel. “Peace on Earth? Try Free Trade Among Men.” December 29. http://www.freetrade.org/node/282.]
Buried beneath the … best at home.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">LNG key to free trade</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).
LNG exports will … online by 2020.
Also key to energy interdependence, which solves nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hagel 12 </span>[Chuck Hagel, Professor at Georgetown University, “The Challenge of Change”, 5/15/12, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.acus.org/new_atlanticist/challenge-change]]</span>]
A new world … and increase prices.
Export approvals are inevitable but the plan is key to exports—that solves growth
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">DiLallo 12 </span>Matthew DiLallo, Delta stock and econ analyst, October 3, 2012, “3 Reasons Why Exporting Natural Gas MUST be Approved!”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://beta.fool.com/latimerburned/2012/10/03/3-reasons-why-exporting-natural-gas-must-be-approv/13051/]]</span>,

News hit the …must be approved.
Growth solves famine
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mahder 8</span> (Ethiopian Development Website, “Addressing the root cause of famine and poverty in Ethiopia,” September 27, 2008, http://mahder.com/pdf/Addressing_the_root_cause_of_famine_and_poverty_in_Ethiopia..pdf, AD: 7-6-9)
It is well … famine is necessary.
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Savinar 4 </span>Matt Savinar, JD, Geopolitical expert on the environment, Degree in Political Science @ U of Cali, quoted extensively on the floor of the United States Congress His website, LifeAftertheOilCrash.net is assigned reading in multiple university courses around the world. 04 [“The peak Oil and Die-off,” http://www.Unicamp.br/fea/Ortega/eco/traducau_DieOff.pdf]
Remember that in … amount of killing.276
Econ low now—plan’s key to avoid decline
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Erian 12 </span>Mohamed A. El-Erian , Contributing editor is CEO and co-chief investment officer of global investment management firm Pimco and author of When Markets Collide, NOVEMBER 20, 2012, “American Anxiety”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2012/11/20/american_anxiety?page=0,0]]</span>,

A few weeks … this uncertain future?
Nuclear war
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Royal 10</span> (Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215)
Less intuitive is … deserves more attention.

===Advantage 3 is Warming=== 
US natural gas market will crash without the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hulbert 12 </span>Hulbert, Lead Analyst at European Energy Review, and Goldthau, Head of the Department of Public Policy at the Central European University, an American graduate school based in Budapest, Hungary, 8-5-12
(Matthew, consultant to a number of governments, most recently as Senior Research Fellow, Netherlands Institute for International Relations, and Andreas, prior to joining CEU, he worked for Rand, SWP Germany and the Paul Nitze School of Advanced International Studies, a Fellow with the Global Public Policy Institute’s Global Energy Governance program and an Adjunct Professor with Johns Hopkins University’s MSc in Energy Policy and Climate, “Why America Can Make or Break A New Global Gas World,” http://www.forbes.com/sites/matthewhulbert/2012/08/05/why-america-can-make-or-break-a-new-global-gas-world/print/)

The same debate … oil indexation’s back.
That makes warming inevitable
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bryce 12 </span>Bryce, senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, 7-17-12
(Robert, “Inside the strange world of 'green energy' politics and how it's ruining the US,” http://www.foxnews.com/opinion/2012/07/17/inside-strange-world-green-energy-politics-and-how-it-ruining-us/)

The United States … fast the transition.”
Exports are key—renewables fail
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Riley 12 </span>Riley, professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London, 8-13-12
(Alan, “Shale Gas to the Climate Rescue,” http://www.nytimes.com/2012/08/14/opinion/shale-gas-to-the-climate-rescue.html?_r=1&pagewanted=print)

The battle against … with shale gas.
Global warming is anthropogenic and causes extinction
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hansen 12 </span>James Hansen, PHD, director of the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies, May 9, 2012, “Game Over for the Climate”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/05/10/opinion/game-over-for-the-climate.html?_r=1&partner=rssnyt&emc=rss]]</span>,

GLOBAL warming isn’t …by coming generations.

===Solvency=== 
Transportation infrastructure key to exports
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

Shipping Capacity The … costs to Asia. 40
No barriers besides the plan
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al. 12</span> (Charles, Task Force Co-Chair of Brookings Institution Natural Gas Task Force, "Evaluating the Prospects for Increased Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas from the United States", January,Brookings,www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/papers/2012/1/natural%20gas%20ebinger/natural_gas_ebinger_2.pdf)

We will discuss … ahead or don't.
All export applications will be approved
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Winston</span>, writer for Platts Inside F.E.R.C., 7/9/<span style="font-size: 13pt;">2012</span> (Kate, “Despite DOE permit hiatus, Oregon LNG seeks to start FERC pre-filing for export plan,” Lexis)
Fourteen companies have … for Oregon LNG]
Certain commitment key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Angevine 12 </span>Gerry Angevine and Vanadis Oviedo, Fellows of Fraser Institute of Energy Policy, 2012, “Laying the Groundwork for BC LNG Exports to Asia”, PDF,

Unfortunately, cumbersome regulatory …income and employment.
Federal investment key
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bui 12 </span>Davy Bui, Seeking Alpha, March 15, 2012, “Can GE Help Chesapeake Boost Natural Gas Prices?”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://seekingalpha.com/article/436481-can-ge-help-chesapeake-boost-natural-gas-prices]]</span>,

Earlier this week, … fund the construction.
Anyone but the USfg would decimate the industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">APA 9</span> American Association of Port Authorities (“Questions and Answers about America's Ports and the Harbor Maintenance Tax”, 2009, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.aapa-ports.org/Issues/content.cfm?ItemNumber=1004]]</span>)

Q. Why should … options are limited.
Federal regulations prevent all other actors
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Anderson 11</span> –Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) (A. Paul, “testimony of A. Paul Anderson Chief Executive Officer of the Jacksonville Port Authority (JAXPORT) for the Record of the united States House of Representatives Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Subcommittee on Water Resources and the Environment Hearing: “The Economic Importance of Seaports: Is the United States Prepared for 21st Century Trade Realities?””, October 26, 2011, [[http://republicans.transportation.house.gov/Media/file/TestimonyWater/2011-10-26%20Anderson.pdf]])

With increasingly larger … is fundamentally broken.
Fed action key to maritime industry
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Weakley 8</span> (James, president of the Lake Carriers’ Association, “Realize America’s Maritime Promise”, Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund Fairness Coalition, 4/30/08, http://www.ramphmtf.org/speeches_043008.html)

America´s deep-draft navigation … lose its efficiencies.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Solves nuclear war</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Crospey 12 </span>(Dr. Seth – Senior Fellow at Hudson Institute, Former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense and Deputy Undersecretary of the Navy, ““The U.S. Navy Shipbuilding Plan: Assumptions and Associated Risks to National Security”, Statement before the Committee on Armed Services Subcommittee on Oversight & Investigations U.S. House of Representatives, 4/18, http://www.hudson.org/files/publications/SethCropsey--USNavyShipbuildingPlan--Testimony041812.pdf)
If the Navy’s … century. Thank you.
Obama is key to success
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lugar 7</span> Richard, US Senator, “U.S. Energy Security and the 2008 Presidential Election,” 12/18,
http://www.brookings.edu/events/2007/~/media/files/events/2007/1218_lugar/20071218_lugar.pdf
Congress and private …procrastination and partisanship.
Infrastructure funded now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Freemark 1/1 </span>Yohan Freemark, Transport Politics, 1/1, “ Openings and Construction Starts Planned for 2013”, <span style="color: windowtext;">[[http://www.thetransportpolitic.com/]]</span>,

Yet the federal … transit expansion possible.

Electricity price and gas decoupled now
JOHN <span style="font-size: 13pt;">COX </span>Californian staff writer, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1/3</span>, “Natural gas rates fall, electric rates rise for PG&E customers”, [[http://www.bakersfieldcalifornian.com/business/x1055275758/Natural-gas-rates-fall-electric-rates-rise-for-PG-E-customers]],
Heating your home … go up soon.
Industry preparing now
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Pudner, </span>Law degree from Georgetown, Financial Institutions Lawyer at Baker Donelson<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, </span>9-5<span style="font-size: 13pt;">-12</span>
(Stephen, “Can Cheap Natural Gas Save the U.S. Construction Industry?” 9-5-12, [[http://www.bakerdonelson.com/baker_bricks/blog.aspx?entry=224]])

These large supply … technologically advanced facility.





[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]


=2AC Add-ons= 
===2AC Climate Leadership Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Natural gas cements climate leadership</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Casten 9</span> (Sean Casten, president of Recycled Energy Development, December 16, 2009, “Natural gas as a near-term CO2 mitigation strategy,” Grist, http://goo.gl/b8z08)
Discussions of CO2 … global climate negotiations.


**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">That solves extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Khosla 9</span> (Ashok Khosla, president of the International Union for Conservation of Nature, January 27, 2009, “A new President for the United States: We have a dream,” http://goo.gl/RQsL8)
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">A rejuvenated America, … and transport systems.</span>

===2AC Space Exploration Add-on=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan key to helium</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">EIA 6</span> (Energy Information Administration, the official energy statistics agency of U.S. Government , “Natural Gas Processing: The Crucial Link Between Natural Gas Production and Its Transportation to Market” http://www.eia.gov/pub/oil_gas/natural_gas/feature_articles/2006/ngprocess/ngprocess.pdf)
The world’s supply … from the FHR.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves space exploration</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CN 12</span> – Citation News, “Scientists' High-Pitched Response to Helium Shortage”, 3-22, http://www.cyberregs.com/webapps/Blog/post/Scientists-High-Pitched-Response-to-Helium-Shortage.aspx
Helium - the second … as party balloons.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction </span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Carreau 2</span> (Mark, Winner – 2006 Space Communicator Award, MA in Journalism – Kansas State University, “Top Experts See Space Study As Key to Human Survival”, The Houston Chronicle, 10-19, Lexis)
With Apollo astronaut …<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> in one basket."</span>

===2AC Agriculture Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Volatility wrecks the fertilizer industry—plan solves</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">IECA 3</span> ~Industrial Energy Consumers of America, nonprofit organization created to promote the interests of manufacturing companies for which the availability, use and cost of energy, power or feedstock play a significant role in their ability to compete, July 22 2003, "IMPACT OF THE U.S. NATURAL GAS CRISIS ON THE NORTH AMERICAN NITROGEN FERTILIZER INDUSTRY," http://www.ieca-us.com/wp-content/uploads/072203Fertilizerbriefing.pdf~~
Natural gas is … spring application seasons.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Solves food crises</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The Fertilizer Institute 9</span> ~Trade Group representing the fertilizer industry, "The U.S. Fertilizer Industry and Climate Change Policy," April 2 2009, http://www.kochfertilizer.com/pdf/TFI2009ClimateChange.pdf~~
Fertilizer nutrients – nitrogen … full-scale food crisis.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lugar 4</span> (Richard G., U.S. Senator – Indiana and Former Chair – Senate Foreign Relations Committee, “Plant Power”, Our Planet, 14(3), http://www.unep.org/ourplanet/imgversn/143/lugar.html)
In a world … of our planet.

===2AC China Relations Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Energy key to China relaitons</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mead 12</span> (Walter Russell, James Clark Chase Professor of Foreign Affairs and Humanities – Bard College and Editor-at-Large – American Interest, “Energy Revolution 3: The New American Century,” American Interest, 7-18, http://blogs.the-american-interest.com/wrm/2012/07/18/energy-revolution-3-the-new-american-century/)
On the whole, …on international issues.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Avoids nuclear conflict</span>**
Barber B. <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Conable</span>, president emeritus of the World Bank, and David Lampton, president of the National Committee on US/China Relations, December/January <span style="font-size: 13pt;">1993,</span> Foreign Affairs, p. Lexis
Regionally American interests … to the P.R.C.

===2AC Petro Power Add-on=== 

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports check Iran Petro Power</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Medlock et al ‘11</span> (Report from an energy study sponsored by the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy and supported by the US Department of energy, Medlock is a fellow in energy and resource economics at the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, PhD in economics Kenneth, “Shale Gas and U.S. National Security,” James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, July 2011, [[http://www.bakerinstitute.org/publications/EF-pub-DOEShaleGas-07192011.pdf]]
Utilizing scenario analysis … its nuclear aspirations

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Petro-power causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman ‘7</span> (Research Associate of the Centre for Research on Globalization, Stephen Lendman, “Resource Wars - Can We Survive Them?” Rense.com, 6-6-7 [[http://www.rense.com/general76/resrouce.htm]])
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 8pt;">With the world's … would have survived. </span>

===2AC Russia-Ukraine War Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">US LNG exports solve Russia-Ukraine war</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Ebinger et al 12</span> (Charles, Senior Fellow and Director of the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings,Kevin Massy, Assistant Director of the EnergySecurity Initiative – Brookings, andGovinda Avasarala, Senior Research Assistantin the Energy Security Initiative – Brookings, “Liquid Markets: Assessing the Case for U.S. Exports of Liquefied Natural Gas,” Brookings Institution, Policy Brief 12-01, http://www.brookings.edu/~/media/research/files/reports/2012/5/02%20lng%20exports%20ebinger/0502_lng_exports_ebinger.pdf).
A large increase … and market power.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Russia-Ukraine war goes nuclear – draws in the US</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kingston 9</span> (Brian, Norman Paterson School of International Affairs – CIFP, “Ukraine: A Risk Assessment Report”, February, http://www.carleton.ca/cifp/app/serve.php/1214.pdf)
Russia: Russia seeks …many other countries.


===2AC Japan Relations Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Plan solves US-Japan relations</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Saunders</span>, Executive Director of the Center for the National Interest<span style="font-size: 13pt;">, 2012</span> (Paul J., “Leaving Tokyo in the Dark”, The National Interest, August 7, p. [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/leaving-tokyo-the-dark-7299?page=show]]) KENTUCKY
Darting from one … most pressing problems.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations solve disease</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nye</span>, professor of IR – Harvard, and Komiyama, president emeritus – U Tokyo, 6/12/‘<span style="font-size: 13pt;">9</span>
(Joseph and Hiroshi, http://www.jpf.go.jp/culcon/fulbright-culcon/dl/softpower_summary.pdf)
Regarding Japan-US soft .. and the US.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Disease causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keating, 9</span> (Deputy Web Editor-Foreign Policy, 11/13, “The End of the World, http://www.foreignpolicy.com/articles/2009/11/13/the_end_of_the_world?page=full)
How it could … as troubling complication.

===2AC Chemical Industry Add-on=== 
**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Exports are key to the chemical industry</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Boman ’12</span> (“US LNG Export Benefits Outweigh Modest Impacts on Industrial Output”, Karen Boman, Rigzone Staff, more than 10 years of experience covering the upstream oil and gas sector, June 06, 2012, http://www.rigzone.com/news/article.asp?a_id=118418
Liquefied natural gas … the system works.

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Chemical industry solves extinction</span>**
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ICCA ‘2</span> (International Council of Chemical Associations, June 20, “SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THE CHEMICAL INDUSTRY,” http://www.cefic.be/position/icca/pp_ic010.htm)
The key finding … sustainable job creation.