[[toc]]
=1AC Inland Waterways= 

==__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 130%;">Contention 1 is Inherency</span>**__== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Adoption of a “fix when fail” policy ensures delays and collapse of inland waterways</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Len Boselovic, award winner for business and investigative reporting, 3/18/2012, Pittsburgh Post (“THE NATION'S LOCKS AND DAMS, INCLUDING 23 IN REGION, ARE ON THE BRINK OF FAILURE, ACCORDING TO U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS”)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Faced with flat funding...where they are headed.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That completely halts inland river commerce</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Alexander 12(TIM ALEXANDER, Illinois Correspondent for FarmWorld, “STC calls on Congress for reliable waterways funding,” 4/25/2012 http://www.farmworldonline.com/news/NewsArticle.asp?newsid=14505)hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WASHINGTON, D.C. — Transportation, including the nation’s inland waterways ... he said. “And that means lost jobs.” </span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Failure of one lock spills over – brings all river commerce to a standstill</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Meira 12 (Kristin Meira, Executive Director @ Pacific Northwest Waterways Association, Political Transcript of a hearing of the House Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, proquest)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Early in the last decade, our colleagues ... bottleneck for the entire system.</span>



__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">1ac– Plan</span>**__
__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Plan: The United States federal government should substantially increase its investment in inland waterway transportation infrastructure by modernizing its system of locks and dams.</span>**__



==__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 130%;">Contention 2 is Agriculture</span>**__== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lock collapse decimates agriculture exports – shipping costs destroy competitiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kruse et al., Director at the Center for Ports and waterways, 2011 (“America’s Locks & Dams: “A Ticking Time Bomb for Agriculture?”, www.unitedsoybean.org/wp-content/uploads/Americas_Locks_And_Dams.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agriculture accounted for 22% ... ports arrived at the ports via barge; for soybeans, the percentage was 87–89%.2</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Roads and rails fail – spikes transportation cost and collapses exports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">USB, 12(United Soybean Board, 2/8/12, “Dilapidated Locks on U.S. Rivers Put Farmers, Consumers at Risk,” http://www.unitedsoybean.org/global-opportunities-briefings/dilapidated-locks-on-u-s-rivers-put-farmers-consumers-at-risk/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The study expresses grave concern about aging ... important infrastructure for agricultural shipping.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shipping cost is the biggest internal link to food price spikes</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">UN Committee on Transport 08 United Nations Economic and Social Council, “ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA AND THE PACIFIC,” TRANSPORT AND POVERTY: FROM FARM TO MARKET—EXTENDING THE REACH OF LOGISTICS, http://www.unescap.org/ttdw/ct2008/ctr_2e.pdf</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">SUMMARY Recent increases in the price of food ... fish at the domestic or international levels.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The brink is high – economic recessions and recent food crises have put response capacity on the edge</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brown 11 (LESTER R. BROWN, “The New Geopolitics of Food,” May/June 2011, foreign Policy, United States environmental analyst, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington, D.C.)hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Until recently, sudden price surges ... that anymore; the safety cushion is gone.</span>



===__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 1 is Famine</span>**__=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Developing countries are more and more dependent on US food imports</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kwa 03 “Developing countries are becoming more dependent on food imports,” Aileen Kwa, FOCUS ON TRADE No 86, APRIL 2003</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Developing countries are becoming more dependent ... developing countries increasingly dependent on imports</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Food prices wreck purchasing power in developing countries – causes mass starvation</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brown 11 (LESTER R. BROWN, “The New Geopolitics of Food,” May/June 2011, foreign Policy, United States environmental analyst, founder of the Worldwatch Institute, and founder and president of the Earth Policy Institute, a nonprofit research organization based in Washington, D.C.)hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In the United States, when world ... revolutions and upheaval.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That kills billions</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Power1996 (Paul R.; Tampa Tribune Staff Writer, "Grain Shortage Growing Problem" 1/20 Tampa Tribune l/n)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">There are more people in this world than ever, but ... who live on a dollar a day or less."</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Famine is a d-rule</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">LaFollette 03[Hugh, Cole Chair in Ethics University of South Florida St. Petersburg, PhD at Vanderbilt University, "World Hunger" Blackwell Companion to Applied Ethics, ed. Ray Frey and Christopher Heath Wellman, Blackwell 2003, http://www.stpt.usf.edu/hhl/papers/World.Hunger.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Those who claim the r... expense of the starving.</span>



===__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 2 is China</span>**__=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Domestic production shortfalls means China is shifting heavily to food imports – price hikes tank food security and cause domestic instability</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Shea 5/29 (Paul Shea, an Irish Economics, Finance and Investment writer. His work has been featured on the front page Google News and Google Finance, “The US Has a Very Important Resource which China Doesn’t: Food,” May 29, 2012)hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">As China’s economy grows, so too will its... as we deal with our own.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US imports are the only internal link to collapse – other countries can’t fill in immediately due to opposite growing seasons and small market share</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">WSJ 12 “UPDATE: Brazil Seen Running Out of Soybeans for Export,”June 6, 2012; hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Because theSouthern Hemisphere's planting schedule ... good shape," Mr. Thin said.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That escalates to full political upheaval in China</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Smith 98 (Paul J. Smith is a research fellow with the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Hawaii. He specializes in transnational security issues and has published numerous articles on these subjects.], “FOOD SECURITY AND POLITICAL STABILITY IN THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION,” ASIA-PACIFIC CENTER FOR SECURITY STUDIES, SEPTEMBER 11, 1998http://www.apcss.org/Publications/Report_Food_Security_98.html )hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Food security and political stability ... becomes an issue of regime survival.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chinese instability causes extinction</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Yee and Storey 2002 (Herbert Yee, Professor of Politics and International Relations at the Hong Kong Baptist University, and Ian Storey, Lecturer in Defence Studies at Deakin University, 2002 (The China Threat: Perceptions, Myths and Reality, RoutledgeCurzon, pg 5</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The fourth factor contributing to the ... to its neighbours and the world.</span>



===__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 3 is Deforestation</span>**__=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Rising food prices will force arable land increases that will come at the cost of global biodiversity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Blas 08(Javier, London Financial Times Asia Edition, Jan. 22nd, l/n accessed 8/1)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scarcity of water and arable land ... such as California and southern Spain, the report said. Sugar price surge, Page 24 28E 40L 26U www.ft.com/foodprices </span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Specifically, US soybean competitiveness is key to prevent Brazil from dominating the soy market</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agrimoney 11(11/11/11, agrimoney.com, “US soy exports have 'narrow window' for recovery,” http://www.agrimoney.com/news/us-soy-exports-have-narrow-window-for-recovery--3836.html)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">US soybean exporters have only a "narrow window" ... exports are seasonally small".</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">South American production will substitute for U.S. Soybeans </span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Babcock, 6 (Summer 2006, A., Bruce, Cargill Endowed Chair of Energy Economics, the Director of the Biobased Industry Center, a professor of economics at Iowa State University, Ph.D. in agricultural and resource economics from the University of California at Berkeley, “Can South America Pick Up the Soybean Slack?” http://www.card.iastate.edu/iowa_ag_review/summer_06/article4.aspx)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The astounding ramp-up in U.S. ethanol ... get back to its historical path of production growth.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Growth of Brazilian soybean exports triggers deforestation of the Amazon rainforest that is key for biodiversity</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Brown, 9President of the Earth Policy Institute (Lester R. Brown, the recipient of many prizes and awards, including 25 honorary degrees, a MacArthur Fellowship, the 1987 United Nations' Environment Prize, In 2012, he was inducted into the Earth Hall of Fame Kyoto, “Growing Demand for Soybeans Threatens Amazon Rainforest”, December 30, 2009, http://www.earth-policy.org/plan_b_updates/2009/update86)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The Amazon rainforest sustains ... in demand for soybeans by stabilizing population worldwide as soon as possible.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Agriculture growth is the biggest internal link to rapid irreversible biodiversity loss</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Walsh 11 (“Forests Vs. Food?” Bryan Walsh, Senior writer for TIME magazine, covering energy and the environment—and also, occasionally, scary diseases. Feb. 7 2011, http://science.time.com/2011/02/07/forests-vs-food/)hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Still, all this progress could be lost if forests ... Seymour. “Farming could be a major driver in forest loss.”</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Amazon deforestation causes extinction** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Takacs 96 (Instructor in Department of Earth Systems Science and Policy at California State-Monterey Bay [David, 1996 Philosophies of Paradise, pg. http://www.dhushara.com/book/diversit/restor/takacs.htm]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">So biodiversity keeps the world ... the next century - not with a bang but a whimper.14 </span>



===__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Scenario 4 is Human Rights</span>**__=== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">High food prices leads to human suffering.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bar-Yam et al 11,Yaneer Bar-Yam, Karla Z Bertrand, and Marco Lagi, Professor Yaneer Bar-Yam is Founding President of the New England Complex Systems Institute. His research focuses on developing complex systems concepts and applying them to diverse areas of scientific inquiry and to major social problems. Professor Bar-Yam has advised government agencies, non-governmental organizations and corporations about solving problems using principles and insights from complex systems science. These include The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The Centers for Medicaid and Medicare Services, a wide variety of healthcare organizations, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the UN, the World Bank, Asian Development Bank, the US military (Navy, Air Force, Army and Department of Defense) and intelligence community (CIA, NSA, TSA) and military and civilian engineering corporations (Boeing, Lockheed-Martin, Raytheon, SAIC). He has advised Congressman Barney Frank as Chairman of the Financial Services Committee, and Congressman Michael Capuano on the financial crises. He is a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. He is chairman of the International Conference on Complex Systems (ICCS), managing editor of InterJournal and Springer book series on complexity, and author of over 180 research papers in professional journals, including in Science, Nature, PNAS, American Naturalist, and Physical Review Letters. Professor Bar-Yam received his SB and PhD in physics from MIT in 1978 and 1984 respectively. “The Food Crises and Political Instability in North Africa and the Middle East”, September 28, 2011, [[http://necsi.edu/research/social/food_crises.pdf]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The importance of food prices for ... political crises to represent a global concern about vulnerable populations and social order</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The degradation of human rights is the root cause of war and genocide – when humans are reduced to objects, any atrocity is justified.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Berube, 1997(Berube, David. Professor. English. University of South Carolina. “Nanotechnological Prolongevity: The Down Side.” 1997. http://www.cas.sc.edu/engl/faculty/berube/prolong.htm.)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Assuming we are able to predict who or what ... is evil's most powerful weapon.</span>



==__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 130%;">Contention 3 is the Economy</span>**__== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Lack of investment in lock modernization is stifling multiple industries – the plan is key to prevent industry collapse.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">USA Today, Paul Davidson staff writer, 5/20/12, http://www.usatoday.com/money/economy/story/2012-05-20/creaking-infrastructure/55096396/1, “USA's creaking infrastructure holds back economy”; AB</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inland waterways quietly keep the ... the silent industry" because waterways are less visible, he says.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Two internal links:</span>**

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">First is uncertainty:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Even if there are no catastrophic failures the lack of investment injects uncertainty that will undermine the viability of the inland waterway system</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Bray, 11 --- Center for Transportation Research, University of Tennessee, Knoxville (9/21/2011, Larry G., Congressional Documents and Publications, House Transportation and Infrastructure Subcommittee on Water Resources and Environment Hearing - "The Economic Importance and Financial Challenges of Recapitalizing the Nation's Inland Waterways Transportation System,” Factiva, JMP)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Has Aging Infrastructure Left US Inland ... can never be restored will top many lists.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">That uncertainty over the funding of inland waterways ensures economic disaster</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Gibbs, 12 – Member, Representative for Ohio’s 18th Congressional District (4/18/2012, Bob Gibbs, “HOW RELIABILITY OF THE INLAND WATERWAY SYSTEM IMPACTS ECONOMIC COMPETITIVENESS”, http://transportation.house.gov/news/PRArticle.aspx?NewsID=1609)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Washington, DC – The Water Resources and Environment ... to ensuring safe, reliable, low cost, domestic energy – including electricity – to our country.”</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Second is jobs:</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Beyond simple construction jobs, ripple effect through economy created through the plan</span>**
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">DeVol et al, 10</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">(Ross, chief research officer at the Milken Institute, a non-partisan, independent economic think tank, “Jobs for America”, January 2012,[[http://www.nam.org/~/media/58F813B0D1E643DC91E564FE4C3B3C2F.ashx]], accessed 9/4/12, Bill)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inland waterways are part of the nation’s ... increase would be about 22,300 jobs.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Job creation is the biggest internal link to the economy—outweighs cutting the deficit-</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Tyson 11-Professor @ the Haas School of Business of UC-Berkeley, PhD in Economics @ MIT, BA Summa Cum Laude in Economics @ Smith College, former Chair of the US President’s Council of Economic Advisers, served as the Director of the National Economic Council [Laura, The Washington Post, “What it will take for President Obama and big business to bring back American jobs,” 9/18/2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/on-leadership/for-president-obama-and-american-business-fixing-the-us-jobs-deficit/2011/08/18/gIQAhW8ZNJ_story.html]], DKP]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The immediate crisis confronting the U.S. ... good-paying jobs in the next few years.</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">**Economic decline causes global war** </span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Royal 10[Jedediah, Director of Cooperative Threat Reduction – U.S. Department of Defense, “Economic Integration, Economic Signaling and the Problem of Economic Crises”, Economics of War and Peace: Economic, Legal and Political Perspectives, Ed. Goldsmith and Brauer, p. 213-215]</span>
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Less intuitive is how periods of economic ... conflict has not featured prominently in the economic-security debate and deserves more attention. </span>


==__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 130%;">Contention 4 is Disasters</span>**__== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">The risk of natural disasters is increasing in the status quo.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kutler 12 (Jeffrey Kutler is editor-in-chief of Risk Professional magazine, published by the Global Association of Risk Professionals, “Natural Disasters Are Increasing: How Does That Affect Risk?,” 2/3/12, [[http://www.institutionalinvestor.com/blogarticle/2973738/natural-disasters-are-increasing-how-does-that-affect-risk.html]]) </span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">If the world seems more dangerous— buffeted ... Japan had been more fully insured.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Natural disasters are in the US are inevitable and getting worse</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Chichilnsky 5 (Graciela Chichilnsky, UNESCO Chair of Mathematics and Economics and is a professor of statistics at Columbia University, 05 ("Catastrophic Risks: The need for new tools, financial instruments and institutions." October 20, 2005) [[http://privatizationofrisk.ssrc.org/Chichilnisky/]]</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">While people watch TV ... environment, and we need to do that fast.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Inland Waterways key to disaster response.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">RITA 11, Research and Innovative Technology Administration University Transportation Centers, August 2011, “Emergency Response via Inland Waterways”, http://utc.dot.gov/publications/spotlight/2011_08/html/spotlight_1108.html</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">A catastrophic disaster can disable or ... possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.</span>



==__**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 130%;">Contention 5 is Solvency</span>**__== 

**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Army Corps key – expertise, coordination with agencies, engineering, empirics</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Dr. William G. Howland 4is the Basin Program Manager of Lake Champlain, Grand Isle, VT, “U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS ROLE IN THE NATION'S WATER RESOURCE NEEDS IN THE 21ST CENTURY, Capital Hill Testimony, March 31, lexis</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our partnership involves the states of Vermont and New York, the ... to testify before you today. I look forward to answering your questions.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Empirics flow aff- The corp is successful</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Kibler, 6-21-12(Joan, Journalist US Army Corps of engineers, Middle East District, “Army Corps of Engineers continues construction in Iraq”, http://www.army.mil/article/82304/Army_Corps_of_Engineers_continues_construction_in_Iraq/)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Though its construction program is a fraction of what ... Partnership Office; both are part of the U.S. Embassy-Iraq.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Funding for waterway modernization in the squo – just a question of effectiveness</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 3/25/2012 (Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, “Water torture: Congress needs to act on decaying locks and dams,” March 25, 2012, http://old.post-gazette.com/pg/12085/1219052-192.stm )hhs-ps</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congress bears the prime responsibility. The buck ... editorial that begins, "We told you so."</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Massive transportation spending now</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">AP 6/29/12(“Congress passes highway jobs bill, halts student loan rate hike,” Associated Press, http://www.omaha.com/article/20120629/NEWS/120629665/1685)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Congress has passed a massive measure ... Keystone XL pipeline was dropped from the measure.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Our case is a discussion of causes and effects not an attempt to turn issues into security issues, don’t view our speech act as an attempt to securitize but rather as attempt to flesh out complicated issues.</span>**
<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">Trombetta 11**Google Books omits pg 139- 140 (Maria, PhD in International Politics and postdoctoral researcher at the department of Economics of. Infrastructures, “Rethinking the securitization of the environment:Old beliefs, new insights” 2011, Securitization Theory: How Security Problems Emerge and Dissolve, Chapter 7, pg 138 – 142, pggooglebooks//greenhill-au)</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif;">In order to clarify why it is difficult ... about the strategic answer to it" (cle Wilde 2008: 596).</span>



[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]