=== === 
[[toc]]
=T - It's= 
**A. Interpretation:**
**The USFG is the government in Washington D.C.**
__**<span class="cite">Encarta </span>2****k**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> http://encarta.msn.com</span>
<span class="underline">“The federal government of the United States is centered in Washington DC”</span>

**“Its” means belonging to it or that thing**
**<span class="cite">__Oxford English Dictionary, 1989__</span>** (second edition, online)
Its
A. As adj. poss. pron. <span class="underline">Of or belonging to it, or that thing</span> (L. ejus); also refl., Of or belonging to itself, its own (L. suus).
The reflexive is often more fully its own, for which in earlier times the own, it own, were used: see OWN.

=T - Beyond the Mesosphere= 
**<span class="Tag">A. Interpretation –</span>**
**<span class="Tag">Beyond is outside the limits of</span>**
__**<span class="Tag">Collins '09 </span>**__<span class="Cite">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Collins English Dictionary Unabridged, “beyond”, </span>**[[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond|**http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/beyond**]]**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">)</span>**</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-- prep</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1. at or to a point </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">on the other side of</span>__; <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at or to the further side of: //beyond those hills there is a river//</span>
2. __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">outside the limits or scope of</span>__: <span style="font-size: 8pt;">beyond this country's jurisdiction</span>
**Mesosphere refers to 80 KM above the Earth’s surface**
__**<span class="Tag">Atmospheric Chemistry Glossary 11</span>**__

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Mesosphere - In the atmosphere, the region immediately above the stratosphere and immediately below the thermosphere</span>__. <span style="font-size: 8pt;">The mesosphere begins </span>__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">about 50 kilometers high</span>__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">at the stratopause and ends about 80 kilometers high at the mesopause. The temperature in the mesosphere decreases sharply with increased altitude.</span>

**Space refers to at least 80KM from Earth's surface - NASA definition**
__**<span class="Tag">Thirsk 9</span>**__ <span class="Cite">**<span style="font-size: 9pt;">(Robert, Canadian Space Agency “The Space-Flight Environment: the International Space Station and Beyond”, June, http://www.ecmaj.ca/cgi/content/full/180/12/)</span>**</span>

__<span style="font-size: 12pt;">There are different definitions for the boundary to space. National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) uses flight above 80 km to designate individuals as astronauts</span>,__ <span style="font-size: 8pt;">while the Fédération Aéronautique Internationale uses the 100 km Karman line as the internationally accepted boundary to space</span>. __<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Beyond this altitude, aerodynamic flight is not possible, and spacecraft must travel faster than orbital velocity to manoeuvre and remain in orbit</span><span class="underline0">.</span>__