[[toc]]
==Greenhill== 

===Round Robin 2-- San Dieguito=== 
====1nc states CP (2nr)==== 
**Text –**

**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over Intelligent Transportation Systems to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on Intelligent Transportation Systems to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in Intelligent Transportation Systems**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership of Intelligent Transportation Systems to the private sector.**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the role of the federal government should be limited to regulations and standardization—states and cities are better equpped to handle local intelligent transport needs</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Keeling and Mooney, 1ac solvency advocate ‘11</span> [2011, Dr. Mary Keeling is a Manager of the IBM __[[#|Institute for Business]]__ Value Center for Economic Analysis. She holds a PhD in Economics from Trinity College, Dublin. Gerard M. Mooney is currently General Manager of Global Smarter Cities. IBM Executive Report, “Transportation and economic development: Why smarter transport is good for jobs and growth” http://public.dhe.ibm.com/common/ssi/ecm/en/gbe03441usen/GBE03441USEN.PDF]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Governments need to accelerate the development of common standards for ITS solutions and open data</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">the city to introduce an integrated fare structure based on distance traveled. 40</span>

**Solves the case – the CP encourages state experimentation with full privatization – this raises more capital than the plan and stimulates the economy without federal funding**
**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Decentralizing Infrastructure __[[#|Financing]]__ </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The U.S. economy needs infrastructure, but </span>state<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">traffic __[[#|control system]]__, as Canada has done with very favorable results.31</span>

**The CP’s experiment creates the political will for full-scale infrastructure privatization**
**Winston, 10** - applied microeconomist and senior fellow in the Economic __[[#|Studies Program]]__ at the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brookings_Institution|Brookings Institution]]. He specializes in the analysis of and has written extensively on industrial organization, regulation, and transportation (Clifford, __Last Exit: Privatization and Deregulation of the U.S. Transportation System,__ p. 2-3)//DH//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Do the </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">current problems with the transportation system suggest that the nation should</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> find a</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
a new approach to transportation policy//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> that could significantly improve the system’s performance.</span>//


//**4 net benefits –**//

//**1. productivity – federal planning undermines productivity because it can’t accurately respond to price signals. Private decision making more efficiently allocates resources tailored to economic need**//
//**Edwards, 11** - director of tax policy studies at Cato. Before joining Cato, Edwards was a senior economist on the congressional Joint Economic Committee, a manager with PricewaterhouseCoopers, and an economist with the Tax Foundation (Chris, “Federal Infrastructure Investment” Congressional Testimony, 11/16, [[http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)/DH|http://www.cato.org/publications/congressional-testimony/federal-infrastructure-investment)//DH]]//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the description of today's hearing, the committee asked how infrastructure helps to promote</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">5 billion for housing, and $3.5 billion for airports.</span>//

//**2. Innovation – federal planning doesn’t accurately target infrastructure development to best meet economic need – mismanagement deepens economic problems**//
//**Norcross and Sautet, 9** – both are senior research fellows at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University (Eileen and Frederic, “THE AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT: Will More Public Spending Pave the Way to a Better Infrastructure?” SSRN)//DH

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Infrastructure development is not the cause of economic growth, but rather a consequence.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Consumers don’t obtain what they need and don’t pay for what they consume</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

**3. competitiveness – using private sector capital diverts it from other countries – maximizes competitiveness more effectively than public spending**
**Staley, 8** - senior research fellow at Reason Foundation and associate director of the DeVoe L. Moore Center at Florida State University in Tallahassee where he teaches graduate and undergraduate courses in urban planning, regulation, and urban economics (Samuel, “Gas Tax Increase or Private Capital?,” 7/16, [[http://reason.org/news/show/1006992.html]])//DH//

//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress isn't waiting to see who wins in November before deciding how to spend the</span>//
//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>//
//, ourtransportation<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> system </span>will continue to lag <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">far </span>behind<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our global </span>competitors<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>//


//**4. Public investment is manipulated by project managers who __cook the data__ to win project approval – exaggerates aff benefits and causes massive cost overruns**//
//**Flyvbjerg, 10** - Professor of Major Programme Management at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_University|Oxford University]]'s [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sa%C3%AFd_Business_School|Saïd Business School]] and is Founding Director of the University's BT Centre for Major Programme Management. He was previously Professor of Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aalborg_University|Aalborg University]], [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denmark|Denmark]] and Chair of Infrastructure Policy and Planning at [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delft_University_of_Technology|Delft University of Technology]], The Netherlands (Bent, “Survival of the unﬁttest: why the worst infrastructure gets built—and what we can do about it,” Oxford Review of Economic Policy, Volume 25, Number 3, 2009, pp.344–367, Oxford Journals Online)//DH

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">This situation may need some explication, because it may sound to many like an</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">signiﬁcant social and environmental impacts, as is common with major infrastructure projects.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC Elections (2nr)</span>==== 

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Obama wins but it’s gonna be close</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">ABC 9/19</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">/12 (“Battleground Polls: Could Obama Lose the Popular Vote but Win the Election?”, [[http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/09/battleground-polls-could-obama-lose-the-popular-vote-but-win-the-election/]], Hemanth)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">George W. Bush did it in 2000. So did John Quincy Adams,</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">surpass 269 Electoral College votes while seeing Romney become the next Al Gore.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Transportation swings the election—voters backlash against federal infrastructure projects</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Orski ‘12</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>





__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Finding</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> more </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">difficult challenge</span>__

__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>__

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Romney labels China a currency manipulator</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Dawson and Mason, 12 </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">Stella and Jeff, Columnists @ Reuters, 2/13, http://www.reuters.com/article/2012/02/13/us-usa-campaign-obama-china-idUSTRE81C0DG20120213</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Tough calculus for Obama in</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Chinese leader's </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">election-year </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">visit¶ Even as he</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as we have been in the past, about where we have differences."</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Causes nuclear war, kills relations and the economy</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">MCNALLY 9.</span> [Chris, research fellow and political economist @ East-West Center, “CHINA-U.S. ECONOMIC RELATIONS: FROM SYMBIOSIS TO RUPTURE?” East West Center -- Feb 8 -- [[http://www.eastwestcenter.org/news-center/east-west-wire/china-us-economic-relations-from-symbiosis-to-rupture/]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The unraveling of this synergy is already creating tensions, recently illustrated by </span><span class="underline">the war</span>

<span class="underline">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">constant dialogue is urgently required to steer this fragile relationship through tough times.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1nc virilio K</span>==== 



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The drive to improve transportation infrastructure is rooted in a worship of speed—time conquers space as we seek endless acceleration which dissolves politics**</span>

**Virilio, 1997**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Professor of Philosophy at the European Graduate School (Paul, Open sky, verso, [[http://www.rhizomes.net/issue8/kuswa.htm|print,]] 81-83) //BZ//</span>

//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But let us get back to Europe’s great engineering projects and the political significance of</span>//

//<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>//

//to enable messages instantaneously trans-mitted long-distance to be connected.//



//**Our worship of acceleration makes a catastrophic Accident inevitable—the politics of speed turn the case and guarantee war and extinction**//

//**Sykes, 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – graduate student at the university of north texas (Jason, “Paul Virilio’s critique of speed, technology, and institutions”, pdf available online) </span>//BZ

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">In Virlio’s view, </span>the war machine i<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">s the demiurge of technological development and an</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">We must politicize speed.</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Virilio, 1983, pg. 35)”</span>



<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**The alternative is to brake—academic discussions must slow down and critically investigate the politics of speed before we come to a decision. Your responsibility as an intellectual is to vote negative to foster democratic engagement and not rush to judgment**</span>

**Glezos 2009**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> - Ph.D. in political theory and international relations from Johns Hopkins University, now works in the department of political science at University of Regina ([[http://www.lib.umich.edu/articles/search?author=Glezos%2C%20Simon|Simon]], “ The politics of speed: Capitalism, the state and war in an accelerating world” [dissertation] pg. 93-94) //BW</span>

__The goal then is__<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> thus </span>__to politicize the military, to politicize war, to__

__AND__

__An appeal to slowness is the only defense against historical necessity of the vicious__

===RR 4 V. GBN (Space Elevator)=== 
1nc elections--above

2nr: squo + elections
====T==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">interpretation--“Transportation” is limited to six modes, including aviation</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kahn 6</span> (Ely, Director for Cybersecurity Policy at the National Security Staff – White House, and Roger Shoemaker, “Transportation Sector Specific Plan”, Chemical Security Summit, 6-28, http://www.ppt2txt.com/r/f892b8c5/)

<span class="TitleChar">The </span>Transportation<span class="TitleChar"> Sector is a vast, far-reaching</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, complex and diverse </span><span class="TitleChar">network</span>
<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">4 trillion revenue ton-miles; 8 Class 1 and 552 additional firms</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">violation—aviation takes place within national airspace, but the plan takes place above 100 km—that’s distinct</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">FAI 4</span>
(The Federation Aeronautique Internationale is a French organization governing air sports and aeronautic and astronautic records. It was founded in 1905.Written by Dr. S. Sanz Fernández de Córdoba, president of ICARE Presentation of the Karman separation line, used as the boundary separating Aeronautics andAstronautics http://www.fai.org/node/22 ajones)

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">All the above knowledge was available in the 1930’s. But it was in different</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">or got too much close to, the 100 Km. Karman line.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Frontier K</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">choosing a space aff on a transportation topic is not a neutral decision—it is ideologically steeped in ideas of escaping the imperfect world to settle a new frontier. this is the root cause of war and environmental destruction</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Mizrach 2k</span> - florida international university, department of sociology/anthropology

(steve, “the symbolic invention of america-as-utopia”, 2000 – last time website updated the actual article had no date, http://www2.fiu.edu/~mizrachs/utopo-amer.html,hgarrett)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Back</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">in the </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">19</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">70s</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">when space had the american imagination enthralled, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">figures like gerard</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">outer space; perhaps it is in the geography of the human heart.</span>



**frontier mythology guarantees nuclear imperialism and genocide**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">SLOTKIN 1985</span> (Richard, Olin Professor of American Studies @ Wesleyan, //The Fatal Environment,// p. 60-61)

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">This ideology of savage war has become an essential trope of our mythologization of history</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">justify many critics in the belief that America is an exceptionally violent society</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>



**The alternative is to vote negative as a rejection of frontier ideology—we must historically contest the narratives which drive our actions**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">TROFANENKO 2005</span> (Brenda, Professor in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction, University of Illinois, The Social Studies, Sept/Oct)

The debates about the overwhelming problems, limitations, and disadvantages of social studies education

AND

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">but rather an opportunity for genuine productive study, discussion, and learning</span>.

====1NC Asteroid DA==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">space elevator requires developing the tech to move an asteroid for counterweights</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">By Jeffrey </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kluger 11</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Senior writer at TIME Magazine, and author of several books on science topics (“An Elevator to Space? Better Take the Stairs” Time Nov. 21, 2011 http://www.time.com/time/health/article/0,8599,2099830,00.html#ixzz24IY43be ajones)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Add to these a few other wrinkles — the requirement that you build your earth</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">kazillion zillion — or €10.05 kazillion zillion at today's close.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">asteroid movement technology risks extinction</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Singer 1,</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;"> (</span>**</span>Clifford E. Professor of nuclear engineering and director of the Program in Arms Control, Disarmament, and International Security at the University of Illinois at Urbana—Champaign, Spring 20<span style="font-size: 10pt;">01</span>, “Swords and Ploughshares”, <span style="font-size: 10pt;">[[http://www.acdis.uiuc.edu/homepage_docs/pubs_docs/S&P_docs/S&P_XIII/Singer.htm]]</span>)
However <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">the technology to build isolated extraterrestrial settlements</span> naturally <span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">brings along with it another potentially</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
flung would such a possibility effectively be ruled out, primarily by physical considerations
====1NC CP==== 
**The US federal Government should:**
**-- phase out all public ownership and coordination of launch services to the private sector**

**-- maintain necessary government space programs by purchasing launch services on a launch by launch basis from the private sector**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in space operations and technology**

**-- transfer necessary technical information and provide necessary technical assistance to the private sector in constructing a space elevator**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">solves</span>
**Cato Institute 01** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(“Cato Handbook for Congress: Policy Recommendations for the 107th Congress” ch. 35 pg. 377 http://www.cato.org/pubs/handbook/hb107/hb107-35.pdf)</span>

__Congress should phase out the National Aeronautics and SpaceAdministration (NASA__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">). To that end</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
__serviceswith potential commercial uses__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">; and● </span>__build down government civilian space activities.__

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">net benefits</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">1. NASA bad—coercive and miserable at managing projects</span>__
__**Taylor 11**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Sunset District Libertarian Examiner (Robert, 04/29/11, “The case for de-funding NASA”, http://www.examiner.com/sunset-district-libertarian-in-san-francisco/the-case-for-de-funding-nasa)</span>__

__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Although some, like NASA's Bill Gerstenmaier, the associate administrator for space operations ,</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>__
many inventions and technological advancements, ignoring unintended consquences that accompany perceived production.

__**Individual liberty comes first -- rejecting every instance of coercion is key.**__
__**Petro, 1974**__
__[Sylvester, Professor of Law at NYU, Toledo Law Review, Spring, p. 480, http://www.ndtceda.com/archives/200304/0783.html]__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">However, one may still insist, echoing Ernest Hemingway - "I believe in</span>__
__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>__
**every invasion of freedom must be emphatically identified and resisted with undying spirit**__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>__


__**Technological risk and cost overruns are**__ **ever-present __even with__ established __technology because there’s a substantial difference between technological capability and engineering integration.__ Speeding __tech integration through government programs creates massive cost overruns and risks total engineering failure__**
__**Rendleman and Faulconer,****11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - * USAF, retired Space Law, Policy, and Strategy Contributor Colorado Springs, Colorado AND President, Strategic Space Solutions, LLC (James and Walter, “Escaping the Space Acquisition Death Spiral”, Part 2, High Frontier, August,</span>**http://www.afspc.af.mil/shared/media/document/AFD-110825-030.pdf****)**__
Space systems, even quick and dirty small-sized ones are not easily engineered
AND
could really work as intended. Time and costs were consistently underestimated.”10__

====__1NC Solvency__==== 


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Space elevator is impossible --- physics, lack of technology, and other barriers</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kluger,</span> 11/21/20<span style="font-size: 11pt;">11</span> (Jeffrey, An Elevator to Space? Better Take the Stairs, Time, p. http://www.time.com/time/

health/article/0,8599,2099830,00.html)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Some ideas just refuse to go away: trickle-down economics, the bolo</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">kazillion zillion — or €10.05 kazillion zillion at today's close.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Many threats facing the space elevator</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Kent 07 </span>**-** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Major, USAF, PE (Jason, Center for Strategy and Technology, Air War College. “Getting To Space On A Thread, Space Elevator As Alternative Space Access” April 2007)#SPS</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There are many threats facing those operating a space elevator. These threats include:</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">politics involved makes the operation of the space elevator an extremely challenging prospect.</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Studies measure the theoretical strength of carbon nanotubes rather than the actual strength, defects are inherent in production of nanostructures and even a perfect space elevator will develop defects over time</span>

Rodney s. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ruoff</span>, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">2006</span>, Professor of Mechanical Engineering at UT Austin editor of the Journal of Nano engineering and Nano systems, Time, “temperature, and load: The flaws of carbon nanotubes”, [[http://www.pnas.org/|Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America]]
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The “mechanics of nanostructures” is of intrinsic and practical interest. An acorn</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">, or other external perturbations present in the real world</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (and space!).</span>


===RR Some Number v Chattahoochee (disabilities)=== 
Elections above

2nr: k
====1nc CP==== 
**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation infrastructure accessibility</span> **investment to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation infrastructure accessibility</span> **investment to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater state investment in** <span style="font-size: 11pt;">transportation infrastructure accessibility</span>

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">States solve – and – our counterplan is the most germane</span>**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Percy, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (Stephen, Ph.D., Indiana University A.B., Hamilton College, Political Science Professor at the University of Milwaukee, “Disability and Federalism: Comparing Different Approaches to Full Participation”, http://books.google.com/books?hl=en&lr=&id=q5F8Oqks7oUC&oi=fnd&pg=PA1&dq=Disability+and+Federalism:+Comparing+Different+Approaches+to+Full+Participation&ots=vhr2r60Sh2&sig=yknyDwNkcNyX66RQv7Zyl-ahnNQ#v=onepage&q&f=true)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Questions about policy coordination invariably raise issues about </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">implement</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">ing </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">disability policies from an intergovernmental,</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">continue to be the focus of policy debates</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> and plans for system reform.</span>


====1NC K==== 
**The 1AC project of describing the world through a systematically coherent explanation of reality that posits aesthetic lack as an originary cause for materalis violence insinuates an insidious new regime of conceptual totalitarianism which binds our imaginations in the ropes of the present. Explaining reality makes the oppression of disability into a curse. Their 1ac amounts to an eight-minute FYI for disabled people summarized under the tag-line "sucks to be you, doesn't it?" This attempt to philosophize suffering is perverse and in fact reinscribes the domination they criticize**
**__<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pelevin ‘2</span>__**<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;"> Victor,Leo Kropywiansky, post-Soviet science fiction author, Buddhist scholar, “Victor Pelevin” Interview, BOMB Magazine, Issue 79 Spring 2002, , LITERATURE http://www.bombsite.com/issues/79/articles/2481</span>
VP Since it happened a long time before I started to write, there’s no
AND
the central issue that interests me as a writer and as a person.

**Ours is not a critique of their goal but rather of their methodological framing of "aesthetic lack" as a "root cause". It is this attempt to locate an origin to violence, creating a final avatar of Power to oppose that has made many of the masses kill in the name of their servitude and drives many systems of domination. Their attempt to __locate__ a center to violence is __precisely__ the enabling condition for oppression, as it scripts the possibilities for resistance in advance. Our challenge to their description __is__ our alternative. Before establishing the desirability of their policy, we must first understand how they act upon the edifices of Power which they claim to change. Our politicization of thought itself is necessary to a __truly__ liberatory politics of __conceptual mobility__**

**__Deleuze ’87__** Gilles, famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, (two translations used) //The Opera Quarterly// 21.4 (2005) 716-724 AND Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62
**__How does one "act" on something__****__,__** and what is the act or
AND
and, since Plato, renders the one the twin of the other.

===Ghill r2 GBS - Bering Strait=== 
elections, virilio above
====Elections Link==== 
The plan would cause a massive political firestorm—it’s viewed as a ridiculous pork project
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR 2006</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (How pet projects in Alaska became pet peeve on Hill, July 25, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Thomas Pease's flower-scented backyard might seem to be an odd place for a</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">opponent Emily Ferry, coordinator of the Alaska Transportation Priorities Project in Juneau.</span>


====1nc alaska cp==== 
The government of Alaska should open an office in Anchorage for the purposes of holding an economic development and business leadership forum on transportation projects that connect Alaska to other nations and reserve the rights of way for rail routes contributing to a Bering Strait tunnel. The government of Alaska should allow state and local governments to pursue and unlimited number of public-private partnerships and remove all restrictions preventing public-private partnership investment in the completion of the Bering Strait Tunnel.

**Opening an office to leverage private capital solves**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Barry 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)/EM|http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada)//EM]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Establishing an Initial Lobbying Effort in North America For international and strategic reasons, a</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">support for an Alaska Canada rail link and an eventual Bering Strait tunnel.</span>**
CP solves 100% of the aff and avoids the link to politics – P3s approved by local governments jumpstart production. Also the aff doesn’t solve – new railroads to link the US and Canada must be built – THEIR SOLVENCY ADVOCATE
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Soloview, 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Fyodor, Founder, Interbering.com, Interbering Briefing, 6/25, [[http://www.interbering.com/]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">For the </span>//U//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">nited </span>//S//<span style="font-size: 6pt;">tates, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">Russia and Canada roughly 5,500 miles of new</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">armies linked up across the river Elba in Germany to end a war.</span>

====1nc solvency==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tunnel will hurt relations—Channel Tunnel proves</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">SEATTLE POST-INTELLIGENCER 1993</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“Let’s Save the Money,” Feb 26, lexis)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">But </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">officials</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> on both sides of the icy Bering Strait have </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">proposed that a</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> $</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">and closer familiarity is breeding more contempt at each entrance to the Chunnel</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

CX says they use the plan as a threat—undermines relations

**The plan is impossible, destroys the environment, and leads to US-Russian disputes**
**FINANCIAL POST 2007**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (National Post's Financial Post & FP Investing, “Russia's tunnel vision,” April 19, LEXIS)</span>
__Critics questioned the plan's practicality, considering that both the Alaska Highway and Mackenzie Valley__
__AND__
__these carrots, and then end up more often than not with nothing__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">."</span>

Russia says no
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Berry, 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">[Mark, Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace, 10-4-2011, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">Aside from building an ACRL, which would be the foundational stage, stages two</span>
<span style="font-size: 5pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">should be seen as a great global task of permanent peace-building.</span>

**Their author says the Bering Strait tunnel would take more than 50 years to build**
**Barry 11** (Mark P. Barry, //Senior Fellow for Public Policy, Summit Council for World Peace,// October 04, 2011//,// “M.P. Barry Advancing the Bering Strait Tunnel Project in the United States and Canada”, Universal Peace Federation, [[http://www.upf.org/programs/bering-strait-project/4017-mp-barry-advancing-the-bering-strait-tunnel-project-in-the-united-states-and-canada]])//EM
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Most</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> can </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">agreethat a Bering Strait tunnel with the necessary infrastructure in North America</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. However, a recommendation is offered that could be accomplished this year.</span>

**Tunnel will fail—earthquakes, weather, financing, and lack of additional infrastructure**
**RICCI 2012**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Tom Ricci is the owner of Ricci Communications, “Connecting Two Continents: The Ultimate Engineering Challenge,” American Society of Mechanical Engineers, http://www.asme.org/kb/news---articles/articles/arctic-engineering---offshore-technology/connecting-two-continents--the-ultimate-engineerin)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, there are many who believe there would be great economical, sociological, and political value in connecting the two land masses by bridge or tunnel. Imagine being able to travel from London to Moscow to Washington, DC, all over land.</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">However, </span>__despite the potential benefits, there have yet to be any serious attempts__
__AND__
__new highways and railways to support the infrastructure and workers for the project__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">.</span>

===Ghill r4 v. Highland Park (existentialism narrative)=== 
====1nc fw==== 
**a) __Resolved__ – reflects a legislative forum**
**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Webster’s </span>**<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">Revised Unabridged Dictionary**, 98** (dictionary.com)</span>
<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">Resolved: 5. </span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d;">To express, as an opinion or determination, by **resolution and vote;** to declare or decide by a formal vote; -- followed by a clause</span>__<span style="color: #0d0d0d; font-size: 8pt;">; as, the house resolved (or, it was resolved by the house) that no money should be apropriated (or, to appropriate no money).</span>

**b) __Substantially__ – it mandates reality and __excludes__ imagination**
**Wollman 93** (Circuit Judge, US Court of Appeals – 8th Circuit, Kansas City Power & Light Company, a Missouri corporation, Appellee, v. Ford Motor Credit Company, a Delaware corporation; McDonnell Douglas Finance Corporation, a Delaware corporation; HEI Investment Corp., a Hawaii corporation, Appellants, 995 F.2d 1422; 1993 U.S. App. LEXIS 13755, L/N)
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Instruction No. 10 was not given in isolation, however. </span>__The district court__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">'s</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">such a demand notice. That determination is all that the contract required.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1nc K (2nr)</span>==== 

**Their argument defeats itself by debating ; the attempt to unravel logic and reason using thought itself is an attempt to render the spontaneous deliberate, which is a self-defeating, melancholic and forfeits the possibility of true passion. Let's be real for a second ; they aren't that radical, their argument isn't that complex and they aren't an injection of the new but a repetition of the same arguments that critical teams have been making for years ; they are just better at getting away with it! By enacting the use of their speech as argument, they sacrifice its mythical potential. Their desire for authenticity collapses into a pornographic narcissism, their insistence on an intuitive, impassioned effluence of meaning is the most deliberate lie of the debate**

Lawrence '20 D.H. famous novelist, Women in Love p.39-42

*Note: in the preceding passages, the two speakers have been examining the reproductive organs of catkins, an English flower. This is why the flowers are used in the question of whether or not it is better to divide and abstract parts from a whole. Use-note; the first paragraph is a loose re-capitulation of the core args, the second paragraph is a response to it

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">"Do you really think</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">, Rupert," she asked, as if Ursula were</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">you can have it all in your consciousness, make it all mental."</span>**</span>


**any movement that actually promises radical change will be destroyed as soon as it becomes visible. An invisible movement has the most subversive potential—voting neg to reject politics is the only political act**

**The Invisible Committee, ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">an anonymous group of French professors, phd candidates, and intellectuals, in the book “The Coming Insurrection” published by Semiotext(e) (attributed to the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarnac_Nine|Tarnac Nine]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by the French police),</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tarnac9.noblogs.org/gallery/5188/insurrection_english.pdf]]]</span>

__Whatever angle you look at it from, **there's no escape from the present.**__
**AND**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">we can see and not avoid the conclusions to be drawn from it.</span>

**To make micropolitics visible is to coopt it by giving resistance an object – this understanding allows resistance to be framed, to be declared a failure and prevents the immanence of imperceptible politics from coalescing around mundane practices and habitudes of existence**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tsianos et al. ‘8</span> Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. “Escape Routes: Control and Subversion in the 21st Century” Pluto Press

<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">In this sense </span><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">imperceptible politics does not necessarily differ from or oppose other prevalent forms</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">AND</span></span>
<span style="display: block; text-align: left;"><span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 11pt;">this void into everyday politics that becomes the vital force for imperceptible politics.</span></span>


**Visibility is suicide for political resistance – the sphere of political representation is fundamentally __closed__ and functions as an echo chamber to simply reproduce the same failed strategies that allow for the continued consolidation of power among elites. The permutation is inevitably coopted**

**The Invisible Committee, ‘7**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> [</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">an anonymous group of French professors, phd candidates, and intellectuals, in the book “The Coming Insurrection” published by Semiotext(e) (attributed to the </span><span style="color: #0645ad; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarnac_Nine|Tarnac Nine]]</span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> by the French police),</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">[[http://tarnac9.noblogs.org/gallery/5188/insurrection_english.pdf]]]</span>

__Whatever angle you look at it from, **there's no escape from the present****.**__
AND
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">we can see and not avoid the conclusions to be drawn from it.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">ST. Marks</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 8pt;">r2 V. UC Lab (Space Ports)</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1nc: T not space, Frontier K, Elections, Nasa Phaseout CP, heg bad and space col bad</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Block: Frontier K, space col bad, elections</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: frontier k</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">r3 V. Transportation Accessibility</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1nc: States CP (devolve), Elections, visibility K</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">block: case, visibility, elections</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: visibility</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">r6. V. Meadows (NIB)</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1nc: T capital expenditure, states cp, elections, corporatism K, NIB bad turns </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">block: NIB bad, K, elections</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: elections</span>

===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Doubles V. Carrollton AR (Icebreakers)</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1nc: T fixed assets, inuit sovereignty, elections, heg bad </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">block: inuits, heg bad, elections</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: inuits + heg bad</span>

====<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Inuits</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the Inuits have a central right in arctic policymaking—the plan denies sovereignty </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Norrell 11</span>

Brenda, Feburary 18, “Wikileaks: The Arctic belongs to the Inuit,” http://narcosphere.narconews.com/notebook/brenda-norrell/2011/02/wikileaks-arctic-belongs-inuit/



<span class="TitleChar">While diplomats debated who owns the Arctic and what to do about melting ice, </span>

<span class="TitleChar">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">flag-planting and earn Russia credit for its search and rescue proposal." </span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">denying sovereignty for resource exploitation enables colonial genocide</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Endres 2009</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">- Assistant Professor of Communication at the University of Utah (Danielle, “The Rhetoric of Nuclear Colonialism: Rhetorical Exclusion of American Indian Arguments in the Yucca Mountain Nuclear Waste Siting Decision,” //Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies.// Vol. 6, No. 1, March 2009, pp. 39_60 ajones) </span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Nuclear Colonialism as a Discursive Phenomenon </span>__Although the material implications of nuclear colonialism are__

__AND__

__to colonization through a constitutive redefinition of sovereignty that supersedes the political definition____.__



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The concepts of cultural and physical genocide are impossible to separate; both include social death which is the most catastrophic impact in the round.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Card 03 </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Claudia [Emma Goldman Professor of Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin]; Genocide and Social Death; Hypatia 18.1 (2003) 63-79; kdf)</span>



<span style="font-size: 7pt;">This essay develops the hypothesis that </span>social death is utterly central to the evil of

AND

and institutions must be reformed or abolished if they are unjust<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (3). </span>

====<span style="font-size: 7pt;">1NC Antarctic</span>==== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">We can maintain presence with cooperative use of Russian icebreakers—if the thesis of their cooperation scenario is true this solves the whole aff</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Frank </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Klotz 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington, D.C., and the author of America on the Ice: Antartic Policy Issues. (“American Interests in Antarctica” National Interest January 17, 2012 [[http://nationalinterest.org/commentary/american-interests-antarctica-6365]] Ajones)</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Of the thirty countries currently active in Antarctica, the United States has by far </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Antarctic Treaty System precisely because it had the largest presence in the area.</span>







<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Treaty fails – no one abides by its regulations</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Voxy 9-18</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Ross Sea needs to be policed to stop illegal fishing – expert, 2012, http://www.voxy.co.nz/national/ross-sea-needs-be-policed-stop-illegal-fishing-expert/5/135122)</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Antarctic Treaty countries need to stop illegal and unregulated fishing in the Ross Sea</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">year they landed 730 tonnes with an export value of $20 million.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC Arctic</span>==== 

**The US doesn't need to own an icebreaker -- it can rent them from the Murmansk Shipping Co.**



**__NSF '12__** National Science Foundation, "NSF Charters Icebreaker to Support U.S. Research Stations in Antarctica" July 3

[[http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=124738&org=OPP&from=home|__http://www.nsf.gov/news/news_summ.jsp?cntn_id=124738&org=OPP&from=home__]]



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The National Science Foundation </span>**__(NSF) announced today that it will exercise an option__**

**__AND__**

**__,__**//<span style="color: #324674;">Vladimir Ignatyuk,</span>//**__to complete__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> the </span>**__channel-breaking and escort duties__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**Clearly defined borders and treaties make Arctic resources drive cooperation, not conflict**

**The Economist '11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> ("Now it's their turn" 2011, http://www.economist.com/node/18277141?story_id=18277141&fsrc=rss)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">WHEN in the Arctic, you should at least treat your host well. Royal </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">out, Norway and Russia last year ended a decades-long dispute. </span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">exxon-rosneft arctic drilling deal cements russia cooperatoin</span>

**Belton 12**<span style="font-size: 7pt;"> – Moscow Times (Catherine Belton, “Exxon and Rosneft seal Arctic deal” April 18, 2012 </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">[[http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8b0c869e-8977-11e1-85af-00144feab49a.html#axzz1yD6SGoDs|http://www.ft.com/cms/s/0/8b0c869e-8977-11e1-85af-00144feab49a.html#axzz1yD6SGoDs]] Ajones)</span>

__ExxonMobil and Rosneft__<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, the Russian state oil champion, </span>__unveiled a historic partnership__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">on </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">Texas Unconventional Exploration project and a deepwater exploration project in the Gulf of Mexico</span>





<span style="font-size: 11pt;">also solves conflict but the plan causes war </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Chad P. </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pate 10 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Major, United States Air Force (“EASING THE ARCTIC TENSION: AN ECONOMIC SOLUTION” Thesis </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Naval Postgraduate School December 2010 Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For its part, </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">the United States should maintain its “reset” policy designed </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">much preferred over the realist vision of an atmosphere characterized by military conflict.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">status quo conflicts will remain diplomatic</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Byron 12 (Ruby Byron, John Gardner Fellow at the U.S. Department of State in the Office of Global Change working on adaptation measures to climate change, Conflict or Cooperation? Arctic0 Geopolitics and Climate Change, 2012, </span>Berkeley Undergraduate Journal, Office of Undergraduate Research, UC Berkeley**)**

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Within the existing literature on Arctic geopolitics and climate change, few authors explicitly define </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">of the line that renders some conflicts authentic and others as something else altogether</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">New icebreakers will not be ready for decades.</span>

**Restino**, 1/13/**2012** (Carey, Icebreaker fleet in U.S. lags behind, The Arctic Sounder, p. http://www.thearcticsounder.com/article/1202icebreaker_fleet_in_us_lags_behind)

Fast forward four years, and those decisions have yet to be made. <span style="font-size: 11pt;">It's </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

//another 25 years// might cost $400 million, <span style="font-size: 11pt;">the congressional report said</span>.



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">no methane bubbles and no impact if there are—prefer science over scared journalists</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">David </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Archer 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - PHD computational ocean chemist at the University of Chicago. (“Much ado about methane” Real Climate 4 January 2012 http://www.realclimate.org/index.php/archives/2012/01/much-ado-about-methane/Ajones)</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Methane</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> is a powerful greenhouse gas, but it also </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">has an awesome power to </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">like paying interest on a loan. Conclusion </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">It’s the CO2, friend</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC Great Lakes</span>==== 





===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Octos V. College Prep (Mayport)</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1nc: T military, Bahrain CP, Cosmo K, elections, heg bad </span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">block: heg bad, bahrain cp, elections</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: heg bad </span>
===<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">Quarters V. Berkeley Prep (NIB)</span>=== 
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">T capital expenditure, TI pic with ableism NB, loan guarantees CP with stimulus spending bad NB</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">block: both cps + spending bad</span>
<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">2nr: TI pic + ableism</span>


====<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1NC Loan Pic</span>==== 

The United States federal government should establish an independent government-owned National Infrastructure Bank to provide transportation infrastructure loan guarantees.
Solves the aff better without spending money
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brandao and Saraiva 10</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Luiz and Eduardo, Journal of Construction Management and Economics: vol.26, issue 11, “The option value of government guarantees in infrastructure projects,” September 2010, </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">[[http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/01446190802428051]]</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">)</span>

**__The presence of the government as a risk reduction agent may be necessary since it__**
**__AND__**
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">) investigate the optimal timing of investment for a high speed rail project.</span>

====2NC loan PIc==== 

It draws in outside investment
<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Cooper 12</span> <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Donna,</span>//<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at American Progress. Formerly the deputy mayor for policy for Philadelphia and secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> “Meeting the infrastructure imperative: An affordable plan to put Americans back to work rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure,” Center for American Progress, Feb 2012) </span>

**__Approximately //$3.3 billion in federal funding enables at least $145 billion//__**
//AND//
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Financing and Innovation Act and the Railroad Improvement and Financing Act loan programs. </span>


A loan involves giving out money
Free Dictionary No Date, http://www.thefreedictionary.com/loan
A sum of money lent at interest.

“Investment” requires direct capital expenditure
Anderson 6 (Edward, Lecturer in Development Studies – University of East Anglia, et al., “The Role of Public Investment in Poverty Reduction: Theories, Evidence and Methods”, Overseas Development Institute Working Paper 263, March, http://www.odi.org.uk/resources/docs/1786.pdf)

1.3 Definitions
We define (net) public investment as public expenditure that adds to the public physical capital stock. This would include the building of roads, ports, schools, hospitals etc. This corresponds to the definition of public investment in national accounts data, namely, capital expenditure. It is not within the scope of this paper to include public expenditure on health and education, despite the fact that many regard such expenditure as investment. Methods for assessing the poverty impact of public expenditure on social sectors such as health and education have been well covered elsewhere in recent years (see for example, van de Walle and Nead, 1995; Sahn and Younger, 2000; and World Bank, 2002).

violation -- loan guarantees are distinct from investment
Weemba No Date – Weemba is an online financial community that revolutionizes the way Borrowers and professional Lenders find each other and interact. [[http://blog.weemba.com/q-what-is-the-difference-between-an-investment-and-a-loan-can-i-find-investors-through-weemba/]] *Weemba includes the following people: Constancio Larguia, graduated in International Business at Universidad de San Andrés in Argentina. Martin Arriola, Chief Operating Officer. Matthew Reid, Masters Degree in Accounting Information Systems and was licensed as a CPA in 1995. James Clavijo, Masters Degree in Accounting and obtained his CPA license from the state of Florida. Clara Olivera, Finance & Accounting. Sebastian Bellora, Chief Technology Officer. BK
A: Loans must be repaid; investments can be lost. All loans have an agreement and a repayment schedule, sometimes called a promissory note. When someone invests in a business, they understand that it is a risk and they may lose their money or never see any profit from the investment. If your business that was loaned money fails, you still must repay the business loan and all associated interest. For regulatory reasons, loans are the ONLY financial tools available in Weemba at this time. Under no circumstances can repayment plans for projects include a share in a business or other ownership.

Its means ownership
Glossary of English Grammar Terms, 2005
(http://www.usingenglish.com/glossary/possessive-pronoun.html)

Mine, yours, his, hers, its, ours, theirs are the possessive pronouns used to substitute a noun and to show possession or ownership.
EG. This is your disk and that's mine. (Mine substitutes the word disk and shows that it belongs to me.)

====Solvency Turns==== 

1nc solvency offense
1. NIB undermines infrastructure and is unaccountable
Megan McConville ‘9 – MA, city & regional planning 12-11-09 “National Infrastructure Bank: What’s the Deal?” http://thecityfix.com/blog/national-infrastructure-bank-whats-the-deal
The Economic Policy Institute yesterday released a briefing paper that outlines the proposal and describes
AND
free from government accountability, help us build and carry out that vision?

2. delay da
a. even with backlogs administrative creation doubles investment delay
Utt, 11 - HERBERT AND JOYCE MORGAN SENIOR RESEARCH FELLOW at the Heritage Foundation (Ronald, CQ Congressional Testimony, “National Infrastructure Bank”, 10/12, lexis)//DH//

//In the case of an infrastructure bank, such delays will be much longer perhaps//
//AND//
//, Chief Operation Officer, and Chief Lending Officer subject to board approval.//

//b. Delays turn the case – increases the rate of private crowdout, decreases economic output and worsens the downturn//
//Leeper et al, 10 – professor of economics at Indiana University, also written by Todd Walker, a professor economics at Indiana Universtiy and Shu-Chun Yang, from the Congressional Budget Office (Eric, “Government Investment and Fiscal Stimulus,” IMF Working Paper, [[http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2010/wp10229.pdf)/DH|http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/wp/2010/wp10229.pdf)//DH]]//

//This paper contributes to the on-going policy debate by conducting a positive analysis//
//AND//
//intended economic stimulus and may even worsen the downturn in the short run.//

//3.—crowdout turn//
//a. infrastructure bank will crowd the private sector and cause a liquidity freeze//
//Roth, 11 - Gabriel Roth is a transport and privatization consultant and a research fellow at the Independent Institute (Testimony on Financing Infrastructure, The United States Senate Committee on Finance, 5/17,//
//[[http://www.independent.org/issues/article.asp?id=3092]])//DH

Government financing—which would be subsidized by taxpayers—could well discourage private financing
AND
is “rural” would be a small foretaste of what could follow.

b. Crowdout decreases net productivity and causes economic decline in the short term
Leeper et al, 2009 professor of Economics at Indiana University and is also affiliated with Monash University and the National Bureau of Economic Research (Eric M., “GOVERNMENT INVESTMENT AND FISCAL STIMULUS IN THE SHORT AND LONG RUNS,” July 2009, http://www.nber.org/papers/w15153.pdf?new_window=1)//AM

So long as public capital is productive, the expectation of higher infrastructure spending generates
AND
be severely mitigated if the deﬁcit is retired quickly through distortionary ﬁscal instruments.

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">more evidence—japan is the most relevant model for the NIB and proves that lack of accountability creates a political slush fund which net kills GDP even with higher investment </span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Forbes 11 </span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">(Gregory, Paul, Staff Writer, 8-21-11, [[http://news.yahoo.com/why-dont-infrastructure-bank-japan-why-175611191.html]], “Why We Don't Need An Infrastructure Bank? Japan Is Why” WL)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">A state infrastructure bank will be at the core of President Obama's "jobs program</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="TitleChar">who believes this would be a good candidate to buy the Brooklyn Bridge.</span>

<span style="font-size: 13pt;">No Accountability for the project</span>
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FDL ’11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (Fire Dog Lake, “Infrastructure Bank Creates More Non-Accountable Decision-Makers”.http://firedoglake.com/2011/08/04/infrastructure-bank-creates-more-non-accountable-decision-makers/)</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">But </span>where would the money come from<span style="font-size: 6pt;">? The Iraq war drains our national resources</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
clients are<span class="TitleChar"> certainly </span>aligned<span class="TitleChar">, but </span>not with the interests of<span class="TitleChar"> US </span>citizens<span style="font-size: 6pt;">.</span>


====<span style="font-size: 11px; line-height: 16px;">1NC TI PIC + Ableism</span>==== 



**The United States federal government should establish an independent government-owned National Infrastructure Bank to provide nontransportation infrastructure loans.**



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Their entire aff is about infrastructure spending but has zero unique warrant for transit -- indeed every other kind of infrastructure spending is an alt cause to aff solvency and the counterplan solves the case better -- establishing the NIB alone is sufficient to solve</span>**


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Schwenninger THEIR AUTHOR 10-29</span> (Sherle R. Schwenninger, Director, Economic Growth Program and American Strategy Program, and co-founder, New America Foundation, founding editor of World Policy Journal, and Senior Fellow at the World Policy Institute, former Senior Program Coordinator for the Project on Development, Trade, and International Finance at the Council on Foreign Relations, “The Missing Economic Debate,” The Nation, 10-29-2012, http://newamerica.net/publications/articles/2012/the_missing_economic_debate_72715)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Barack Obama and Mitt Romney agree on at least one thing: that this election </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">of </span>a major public investment program for<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> creating </span>jobs and<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> supporting stronger </span>growth<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Nontransportation infrastructure solves better AND is an alt cause to the aff -- the mere establishment of an infrastructure bank is sufficient to solve</span>**



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cooper AFF AUTHOR 9-12</span> (Donna Cooper, Senior Fellow with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, former deputy mayor for policy for the city of Philadelphia, former secretary of policy and planning for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania; Kristina Costa, Research Assistant in Economic Policy at the Center for American Progress; Keith Miller, intern with the Economic Policy team at the Center for American Progress, student at the Georgetown Public Policy Institute; “Creating a National Infrastructure Bank and Infrastructure Planning Council: How Better Planning and Financing Options Can Fix Our Infrastructure and Improve Economic Competitiveness,” Center for American Progress, September 2012, [[http://www.americanprogress.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/InfrastructureBankReport.pdf]])

Infrastructure forms the foundation of the U.S. economy<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>__Without__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> highways, </span>

**__AND__**

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">past time for us to stop neglecting the very foundation of our economy</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



net benefit



**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The 1ac uncritical affirmation of transportation infrastructure entrenches discriminatory ableist practices that demonize difference by positing mobility as a social norm</span>**



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Langan, 2001</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Celeste, Associate Professor of English at the University of California Berkeley, “Mobility Disability”, Public Culture, Vol. 13 No. 3, Fall, Project Muse)</span>



**__To think about mobility disability is to think about norms of speed and ranges of__**

**__AND__**

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">than the ADA’s “individuals with wheelchairs”: the mass-transit dependent. </span>


<span style="font-size: 11pt;">**This social construction of disability legitimates eugenic extermination** </span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bagenstos, 2000</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Samuel R., Law Professor at Harvard, 86 Va. L. Rev. 397, April)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Erving Goffman's notion of stigma is a useful tool here. Although "stigma" </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">people with disabilities </span>have <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">effectively </span>**__marked that group as a "dependent caste."__**

====2NC Impact Calc==== 

**<span style="font-size: 14pt;">Prioritizing our impact is a moral obligation -- how we count the effect of infrastructure on non-normative bodies is the central ethical question of the debate. A society without primary regard for disability is a society unworthy of protecting</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Bérubé, '3</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michael, Paterno Family Professor in Literature at Pennsylvania State University, “Citizenship and Disability”, Spring, http://www.dissentmagazine.org/article/?article=506)</span>

<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">It is striking, nonetheless, that so few leftists have understood disability in these </span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-family: Georgia,serif; font-size: 8pt;">, which is to say, for the good of all of us.</span>

====AT: Perm/Wilson==== 
**The permutation is a token gesture -- tacking on the question of interrogating disability after the fact participates in the structures of ableist privilege we criticize**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Campbell, Griffith Law School Faculty, 9</span>
(Fiona Kumari, Griffith University Australia, “Disability Advocacy & Ableism: Towards a re-discovery of the disability Imagination”, Keynote Address, 2nd Strengthening Advocacy Conference, Nov 17-18, [[http://griffith.academia.edu/FionaKumariCampbell/Papers/118483/Disability_Advocacy_and_Ableism_Towards_a_re-discovery_of_the_disability_Imagination]], p. 1-2, accessed 7/6/12 sl)

Working models (often called c<span style="font-size: 11pt;">onceptual frameworks) are very important as they help us </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
way that it is organized had something to do with us becoming disabled ….

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The transprtation policy-making process by itself participates in destructive ableism</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Imrie '0 University of London Geography Professor 2000</span>
(Rob Imrie, January 6, 2000 Environment and Planning A 2000, volume 32, Disability and discourses of mobility and movement [[http://www.envplan.com/abstract.cgi?id=a331]] pg. 1652 accessed 7-6-12 BC)

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Disabled people's mobility and movement are highly circumscribed by sociocultural attitudes, practices, and</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">care and rehabilitation or, failing that, the application of charitable works.</span>

==<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pace RR/Emory</span>== 
===<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Carrollton Neg (Icebreakers)</span>=== 
====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Russia DA (2NR)</span>==== 
=====1NC DA===== 
**Cooperative drilling and use of russian icebreakers solves relations but unilateral action shatters stability, plan doesn’t solve because we only cooperate whne we lack access capabilities**
**Asia News 12** (News Agency, no author given, [[http://www.bakutoday.net/arctic-policy-between-the-united-states-and-russia-rivalry-and-cooperation.html]], July 6, 2012)
__Contradictions__<span style="font-size: 6pt;"> (explicit and implicit</span>__) between Russia and the United States on Arctic exist__
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
__region, or they will make a choice in favour of multilateral cooperation.__

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Limiting our presence in the region to joint drilling ensures competition remains solely economic, but the plan means we pursue hardline policies like BMD which cause military escalation</span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pate 10</span> – Major USAF (Chad P., Thesis paper for an MA in Security Studies “Easing the Arctic Tension: An Economic Solution”, December 2010, http://www.hsdl.org/?view&did=11038)

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Currently, the United States does not possess any ice-hardened warships and its </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">much preferred over the realist vision of an atmosphere characterized by military conflict.</span>



<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Arctic BMD uniquely escalates—breaks down MAD and diverts russian modernization funds to nuclear arms racing </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Rachel </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Douglas AND</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Russia and Eastern Europe Editor of. Executive Intelligence Review, and Nancy </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Spannaus</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, Editor in Chief of Executive Intelligence Review 20</span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“It's Not Just Words: Russian, U.S. Militaries in Action” the September 28, 2012 issue of Executive Intelligence Review. [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2012/09/29/it-s-not-just-words-russian-u-s-militari]] Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Countering Euro BMD</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">In an interview with Russia Today television, broadcast Sept. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">-in-hand with modernizing shipbuilding enterprises and other defense industry companies."</span>

=====2NC Impact===== 
BMD is the biggest risk of nuclear escalation
Noam <span style="font-size: 11pt;">Chomsky</span>, Professor Emeritus, MIT, ZNet, 8.27<span style="font-size: 11pt;">.07</span>
http://www.zmag.org/znet/viewArticle/14625
Washington's feverish new Cold War "containment" policy has spread to Europe. Washington
AND
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">II into a hot one - in this case a real hot war</span>.

Russia expansion is inevitable, responding belligerantly sparks nuclear and biological weaposn use
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Cohen 10—</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">prof, Russian Studies and History, NYU. Prof emeritus, Princeton (Stephen, US-Russian Relations in an Age of American Triumphalism: An Interview with Stephen F. Cohen, 25 May 2010, http://www.thenation.com/article/us-russian-relations-age-american-triumphalism-interview-stephen-f-cohen,)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">The third post-1991 conflict is stated like a mantra by American policymakers: </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">, I should add in the think tanks, can connect these dots. </span>

Extinction.
<span class="citesChar">Ochs</span>, 20<span class="citesChar">02</span>
[Richard, Naturalist – Grand Teton National park with Masters in Natural Resource Management – Rutgers, “Biological Weapons must be abolished immediately” 6-9, http://www.freefromterror.net/other_articles/abolish.html]
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">Of all </span>the <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">weapons </span>of mass destruction, the genetically engineered <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">bio</span>logical<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">weapons, many </span>
<span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">AND</span>
Can we imagine hundreds of such plagues? <span style="font-size: 10.5pt;">HUMAN EXTINCTION IS NOW POSSIBLE</span>.
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 13pt;">Turns EVERY POSSIBLE IMPACT </span>**
**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Simes 7 [</span>**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">Dimitri, President of the Nixon Center and Publisher of The National Interest, Foreign Affairs, “Losing Russia; The Costs of Renewed Confrontation,” Nov/Dec -- lexis]</span>
<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">But </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">if</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> the current </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">U.S.-Russian relationship deteriorates</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">further, </span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">it will </span>__
__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">incentives and cover for others to confront Washington, with potentially catastrophic results</span>__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">.</span>

=====<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">2NC Brink</span>===== 

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Russian civic awakening is ushering in a new era of reform and moderation, but hardline approaches towards Russia inflame anti-americanism and restore legitimacy to aggressive politics—causes war </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Trenin et al 2012 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">- Dmitri Trenin is director of the Carnegie Moscow Center, chairs the Foreign and Security Policy Program. Alexei Arbatov is a senior scholar and chair of the Nonproliferation </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center and head of the Center </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> for International Security at the Institute of World Economy and </span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> International Relations at the Russian Academy of Sciences. Maria Lipman is the editor of the Pro et Contra journal and an expert in the Society and Regions Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. Alexey Malashenko is the co-chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center’s Religion, Society, and Security Program, taught at the Higher School of Economics from 2007 to 2008, and was a professor at the Moscow State Institute of International Relations. Nikolay Petrov is the chair of the Carnegie Moscow Center’s Society and Regions Program. Andrei Ryabov is a member of the Carnegie Moscow Center’s Research Council and chair of the Center’s East East: Partnership Beyond Borders Program, chief editor of the journal World Economy and International Relations and a leading researcher at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of World Economy and International Relations. Lilia Shevtsova is a senior associate at the Carnegie Moscow Center, where she chairs the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program, also an associate fellow at the Royal Institute of International Affairs [Chatham House]. (“THE RUSSIAN AWAKENING” A Joint Paper by the Carnegie Moscow Center November 2012 [[http://carnegieendowment.org/2012/11/27/russian-awakening/en9d|http://carnegieendowment.org/2012/11/27/russian-awakening/en9d#]] Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The Civic Awakening</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">Relations between society and authority in Russia and within society itself </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">will determine whether Russian society is capable of making the required quantum leap.</span>





<span style="font-size: 11pt;">tit for tat over magnitsky and adoption proves they will escalate any power play signals </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">VLADIMIR </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">RADYUHIN 1/23</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (January 23, 2013 “A troubled relationship frays further” http://www.thehindu.com/opinion/op-ed/a-troubled-relationship-frays-further/article4333162.ece Ajones)</span>



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">For Russia and the United States, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">this year began with a new row that </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of his legitimacy,” said Gleb Pavlovsky, a former Kremlin PR strategist.</span>





<span style="font-size: 11pt;">magnitsky is a brink but russia wants to cooperate economically, plan reverses that </span>

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Xinhua 1/23 </span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(“Moscow ready to retaliate against unfriendly moves over Russia-US ties”Xinhua | 2013-1-23 16:20:58 http://www.globaltimes.cn/content/757710.shtml Ajones)</span>



<span style="font-size: 12pt;">Moscow is </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">prepared to retaliate </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">against unfriendly moves over Russian-US ties, Foreign </span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">as the anti-Magnitsky Act, became effective on Jan. 1.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Russia just invested in Arctic icebreaker development -- plan would be seen as upstaging</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Russia Beyond The Headlines '13</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> 1/10</span>

<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://rbth.ru/articles/2013/01/10/russia_has_worlds_biggest_fleet_of_nuclear_icebreakers_-_putin_21772.html]]</span>



**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Russia will develop a h</span>__****__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">igh-tech shipbuilding sectorand will work to design all </span>__**

**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">in the Russian International Ship Register and will operate under the Russian flag.</span>



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">No rush on Arctic energy</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">iPolitics.ca '13</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> a Canadian news site, "Arctic energy rush runs into a reality check" 1/1</span>

<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://www.ipolitics.ca/2013/01/01/arctic-energy-rush-runs-into-a-reality-check/]]</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Mark 2012 as the year the Arctic rush for oil and gas was put on </span>__**

**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">expensive price tag, have dentedindustry’splans to exploit the polar region.</span>__**



**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Rosneft and ExxonMobil agreement means that in practice energy rushes can't escalate</span>**



**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">BSR '13</span>__**<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;"> Business News Russia, "Rosneft and ExxonMobil support “Diaghilev and the Ballets Russes” Exhibit" 1/21</span>

<span style="color: #1155cc; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">[[@http://www.bsr-russia.com/en/oil-gas/item/2796-rosneft-and-exxonmobil-support-%E2%80%9Cdiaghilev-and-the-ballets-russes%E2%80%9D-exhibit.html]]</span>



<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Commenting on the sponsorship, Rosneft President and Board Chairman Igor **__Sechin emphasized, “__**</span>

**__<span style="background-color: yellow; font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">AND</span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif;">Siberia tight oil pilot project and Declaration on Russian Arctic Shelf Environmental Protection.</span>__**


=====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC Uniqueness- Joint Drilling</span>===== 

difficulty of extraction means makes joint drilling the only economical option—this cements cooperation and guarantees non-military dispute settlement

Nong Hong 12 - associate research professor, Research Center for Oceans Law and Policy, National Institute for South China Sea Studies, China; Adjunct Senior Fellow, China Institute, University of Alberta, Canada.(“The energy factor in the Arctic dispute: a pathway to conflict or cooperation?” The Journal of World Energy Law & Business 5 (1): 13-26. January 6, 2012 http://www.nanhai.org.cn/include_lc/upload/UploadFiles/201212112191553324.pdf Ajones)

6. Opportunity for cooperation The high cost of doing business in the Arctic suggests

AND

—by which mutual understanding can clarify intentions and help to build trust.





a former russian military leader turned U.S. think tank research fellow confirms that Russia’s military policy is purely defensive because they are economically motivated to cooperate – prefer qualified evidence to their neocon threatmongering

Yury Morozov 12 - leading expert in problems of global and regional security, national military doctrine, and international peacemaking, is a professor of the Russian Academy of Military Sciences and a senior research fellow at the USA and Canada Studies Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. He was chief of department at the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces from 1995 to 2000. (“Arctic 2030: What are the consequences of climate change? The Russian response” Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists 68(4) 22–27 sagepub Ajones)

Russia’s newest national security strategy also makes it clear that the Kremlin is looking upon

AND

, and managed cooperatively by the countries with legitimate claims to the region.



Russia currently desires cooperation – economic benefits override military action

Nicoll, 11/26/12 – Alexander, Director of Editorial at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, Editor of the IISS publication Strategic Survey: the Annual Review of World Affairs, ‘Russia in the Arctic: economic interests override military aspirations’, [[http://www.iiss.org/publications/strategic-comments/past-issues/volume-18-2012/november/russia-in-the-arctic/]]



A recent mission by a Russian nuclear submarine to the floor of the Arctic Ocean

AND

goals in the region more effectively than an unnecessary military build-up.



US-Russia cooperation in the Arctic now – insider reports go neg – this also indicts ur authors

Chernitsa, 9/13 Polina Chernitsa citing Alexander Vasiliev 9/13 [Mosco Times, Alexander Vasiliev is a senior Ambassador in the Russian Foreign Ministry, “Arctic: Politics against speculations”, http://english.ruvr.ru/2012_09_13/Arctic-Politics-against-speculations/, 2012]



Among the announced topics are studying the development of the Arctic Region and the discussion

AND

passable – that is why the strengthening of the coast guard is inevitable.



=====2NC Unique SOI Link===== 
**US/Russian relations are at a turning point – US encroachment on Russia’s sphere of influence kills cooperation**
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Eyal 10</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Jonathan, U.S., Russia truly committed to improving their relations, 26 June 2010, http://www.chinapost.com.tw/commentary/the-china-post/special-to-the-china-post/2010/06/26/262241/US-Russia.htm, )</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Yet the meeting between the Russian and American leaders also cements a blossoming new partnership </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">of America's trade with China, a figure which is 15 times larger. </span>

=====<span style="font-size: 11pt;">2NC XT: Pace</span>===== 

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Climate change in the artcic should be used as an avenue for cooperation</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pate 10 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chad, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, December 2010, “EASING THE ARCTIC TENSION: AN ECONOMIC SOLUTION”, pdf. Abstract)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">Climate change</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;"> in the Arctic </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">is affecting the ice melt more rapidly than previously anticipated</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">pacific, thereby offsetting realist fears of a military conflict in the Arctic</span>////<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">.</span>//



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Russian response is dictated by US actions – a focus on a realist Russia makes military catastrophe inevitable</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pate 10 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chad, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, December 2010, “EASING THE ARCTIC TENSION: AN ECONOMIC SOLUTION”, pdf. Abstract)</span>



//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">It is likely not a coincidence that the security documents of Russia and the United </span>//

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>//

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">are underway and serve to justify their desire for increased Arctic military capabilities.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">But, that cooperation is betrayed by navy supremacy – the US will use a full scale assault and Russia will provocate</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Pate 10 </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">(Chad, NAVAL POSTGRADUATE SCHOOL MONTEREY, CALIFORNIA, December 2010, “EASING THE ARCTIC TENSION: AN ECONOMIC SOLUTION”, pdf. 24-25)</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">NSPD-66 and </span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">the Arctic Roadmap’s proposed assessment of the Navy’s strategic deterrence capability </span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>

//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">military capabilities</span>//<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">. The remainder of this section details some of these actions.</span>



<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Perception of primacy Destablizes our deterrent relationship – makes escalation inevitable</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Cohen 06</span><span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">Professor of Russian and Slavic Studies at New York University, Contributing Editor of //The Nation//</span>

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">[Stephen F. “The New American Cold War” //The Nation//, July 10th ([[http://www.thenation.com/doc/20060710/cohen]]</span>



**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">If American policy</span>__**<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;"> and Russia's predictable countermeasures </span>**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">continue to develop into a full-scale </span>__**

**__<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif;">AND</span>__**

<span style="font-family: Calibri,sans-serif; font-size: 7pt;">Looking back, he remarked bitterly that Russia has been "constantly deceived.")</span>

====Lease CP==== 
=====1NC CP===== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The National Science Foundation should pursue a lease agreement with Russia for cooperative icebreaking </span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Coast Guard budget is insufficient – NSF should fund the plan</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tyler, 2012</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – David, Reporter for the Professional Mariner, ‘U.S. struggles to create icebreaking fleet to maintain Arctic presence’, http://www.professionalmariner.com/February-2012/US-struggles-to-create-icebreaking-fleet-needed-to-maintain-strong-Arctic-presence/</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">In July, the Coast Guard presented its High Latitude Region Mission Analysis report to </span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">to use money from</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;"> the Department of Defense or </span>//the National Science Foundation////.//

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">NSF leasing solves best</span>
**__<span style="font-size: 13pt;">US Military 12</span>__**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Usmilitary.com publisher usmilitary.com december 2011 http://www.usmilitary.com/8379/nsf-favors-change-in-icebreaker-usage/ nsf favors change in icebreaker useage.)</span>

<span style="font-size: 6pt;">Washington, D.C.- </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">The National Science Board utilizes Icebreakers</span><span style="font-size: 6pt;">in the Antarctic</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 6pt;">pioneered much of what is now accepted as modern Icebreaking theory and practice.</span>



=====2NC Solvency===== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">cooperation over icebreaker fuctions like search and rescue and resources solves the aff best it spills over this ev is comparative </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">BY REGINALD R. </span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">SMITH 11</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;"> (“The Arctic: A New Partnership Paradigm or the Next "Cold War"?” JOINT FORCE QUARTERLY July 2011 http://www.ndu.edu/press/arctic-new-cold-war.html ajones)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In defense and protection of the border and resource areas, Russia continues to bolster </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
the preservation of U.S. vital interests in the Arctic region.


===Emory r3. Johns Creek critical evacuation/nuclearism aff=== 
====??? K==== 
=====1NC===== 

**We begin with the venal sin of a World snarled in perplexity**

**Murakami '11** Haruki, cat enthusiast, novelist 1Q84 p.380-381

Still, Tengo's reading of the story was his and his alone. He could not help feeling a certain sympathy for the trusting men and women who were "left in a pool of mysterious question marks" after reading Air Chrysalis. He pictured a bunch of dismayed-looking people clutching at colorful flotation rings as they drifted aimlessly in a large pool full of question marks. In the sky above them shone an utterly unrealistic sun. Tengo felt a certain sense of responsibility for having foisted such a state of affairs upon the public. But who can possibly save all the people of the world? Tengo thought. You could bring all the gods of the world into one place, and still they couldn't abolish nuclear weapons or eradicate terrorism. They couldn't end the drought in Africa or bring John Lennon back to life. Far from it -- the gods would just break into factions and start fighting among themsevles, and the world would probably become even more chaotic than it is now. Considering the sense of powerlessness that such a state of affairs would bring about, to have people floating in a pool of mysterious question marks seems like a minor sin.

**representative movements worked in the ‘60s because the dominant form was the centralized nation-state authority that relied on controlling subjects through exclusion. Their social change theory is out of date – the new transnational aggregates of sovereignty rely on breaking down borders in order to create a smooth space for control so that the body may be re-enslaved under the illusion of its own desire, coopting their movement into simply another identitarian brand name vying for air time on the neoliberal television that invariably changes the channel**
**Tsianos et al. ‘8** Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. “Escape Routes: Control and Subversion in the 21st Century” Pluto Press

Modern national sovereignty's major concern was the assignment of rights in order to sustain the national compromise between competing __[[#|social classes]]__ and strata of society. Representation was a minor concern, always present and active but still minor (i.e. representation was principally conceived as the ways in which different social classes are interpellated by state apparatuses and are codified in the cultural imaginary). In the double-R axiom of national sovereignty rights were more central than representation. But neoliberalism changed this: the dismantling of social welfare systems and the rapidly rising levels of mobility on the part of post- Fordist labour led to an increasing diversification of social strata and classes. And this diversification brought with it the politics of difference. In other words, the cultural politics of neoliberalism has been postmodernism: the fight for representation. Cultural studies, feminism, postcolonial studies, queer politics have all participated in and critiqued this fight for representation (Hall and Jefferson, 1976; Clifford, 1986; Sedgwick, 1990; Spivak, 1999; Warner, 1999b; Butler, Laclau and Zizek, 2000; Mouffe, 2000). But what is this fight for representation, where does it come from? First of all, it stems from the dissolution of social class as the central actor in society. The different levels in Piranesi's etching seem to represent interconnected but contained social classes. This is not the case for the columns in Libeskind's Garden of Exile. Rather, the 49 columns appear as different social groups on a small scale, more akin to emerging subjectivities than to hierarchically organised classes. The political order of transnational sovereignty is an order with multiple players working to foster alliances between themselves and to establish new relations of power. And it is precisely this form of relationality which triggers the imperative for representation. Rep­resentation enters the realm of politics as the attempt to give voice and operative agency to social groups who have been excluded in the national social compromise's distribution of rights. After the Second World War, social actors focused more on matters of representation than on rights. This is the moment when hitherto imperceptible subjectivities emerge on the political scene and threaten to disrupt national sovereign power, which functions through a centralised allocation of rights. We can trace the singular trajectories of these sub­jectivities in civil rights movements, in the events of '68, in feminist movements, anti-work movements and new forms of cooperation, in the 1960s cultural rebellions and fights against colonialism. By the 1960s, the wild anomaly of the escaping and refusing mobs once again spreads through society and disseminates into the world (Connery, 2005). This is the moment when imperceptible politics coalesces as an escape from national sovereignty. The Intimacy of Power New social subjectivities and new social actors now emerge as a productive force, an immanent force which the modern nation state can no longer negate; national sovereignty is challenged. But this challenge, in turn, triggers its own response. Neoliberalism is not primarily the answer to the quest for a new mode of economic regulation (Aglietta, 1979). Nor does it primarily address demands for a new relation between culture and production (Jameson, 1991) or between market and society (Barry, Osborne and Rose, 1996; Donzelot, 1984). Neoliberalism is the answer to the wild insurgency and escape which emerges after the Second World War. Transnational neoliberal sovereignty only emerges in response to the necessity to tame the reappearance of imperceptible and escaping subjectivities in the post-Second World War period. It attempts to reabsorb the potentials of actors made evident in the 1960s and 1970s. This capture transforms what national sovereignty neglects, now the wild anomaly of the new social subjectivities is channelled into those of docile, productive actors in globalised, transnational neoliberal networks of power. There are neither historical laws nor inherent necessities of other kinds determining the emergence of transnational neoliberal sovereignty; there is only the necessity to tame the imperceptible and escaping subjectivities of the post-Second World War period. The forms of domestication imposed on these subjectivities by modern sovereignty become constraining and even obsolete. Transnational sovereignty functions without starting from a transcendent viewpoint, that is without being able to adopt a perspective from which society can be seen as a whole and without managing to impose a centralised form of regulation on the different social actors involved. Luhmann's (1995) vision of 'non-society' is the most brilliant and apt description of the workings and intricate relationalities dwelling in the social worlds emerging in transnational sovereignty. Instead of disrupting and negating the intimate affection between these new escaping subjectivities and their potentials, transnational sovereignty understands this intimate relation as the immanent, driving force of social life. Transnational sovereignty accepts and does not try to suppress the challenge of insurgent and escaping actors which emerged in the post-war period. Rather than negating the potentials of these subjectivities and imposing a transcendent relation between subjectivity and power, transnational sovereignty turns the intrinsic affection between subjectivity and its potentials into its core functioning principle. In the moment at which the intimacy of subjectivity and its potentials is installed at the heart of sovereignty, sovereignty itself becomes intimate. And of course, what emerges is an intimate form of power. We have here a new form of working with the body's potentialities. Modern sovereignty negates disruptive trajectories and the body's remaining potentials are absorbed into the grand corpus of society (the nation and the big Leviathan). Modern national sovereignty installs a hierarchical, transcendent relation between body and polity. In contrast, transnational sovereignty generalises the intrinsic relation between body, potential and power into the paramount principle according to which society functions. The body's potentials are redoubled and incorporated - not as the object of power - but as the very means through which transnational sovereignty operates. Singularity, potentiality are affirmed as necessary for participation in this flexible regime of control. Transnational sovereignty is decentralised and contagious. The redoubling of the body's potentials in transnational sovereignty means that the body itself takes on its own control. Control is not constructed as a transcendent relation between power and the body but is internalised in the very existence of the body itself (Deleuze, 1992). Transnational sovereignty no longer attempts to regulate the connections between the triptych of people, nation and state territory, rather it abandons the notion that there must be one persistent and prevalent mode of ordering this triptych. In place of any primary organising principle, now organisation arises out of subjectivities as autopoeitic systems and out of the relationality of self-activating bodies (Luhmann, 1985). The self-activating body appears in different guises - the self-organising agent, the robot, the cyborg, the embodied mind, embodied feelings (Varela, Thompson and Rosch, 1991; Haraway, 1991b; Brooks, 2002; Clark, 1997; Damasio, 1999; De Landa, 2002).

**The battle for the public sphere is over—we lost. Conservatives and Liberals are now two sides of the same coin, and any movement that actually promises radical change will be destroyed as soon as it becomes visible. An invisible movement has the most subversive potential—voting neg to reject politics is the only political act**

**The Invisible Committee, ‘7** [an anonymous group of French professors, phd candidates, and intellectuals, in the book “The Coming Insurrection” published by Semiotext(e) (attributed to the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarnac_Nine|Tarnac Nine]] by the French police), [[http://tarnac9.noblogs.org/gallery/5188/insurrection_english.pdf]]]

Whatever angle you look at it from, there's no escape from the present. That's not the least of its virtues. For those who want absolutely to have hope, it knocks down every support. Those who claim to have solutions are proven wrong almost immediately. It's understood that now everything can only go from bad to worse. "There's no future for the future" is the wisdom behind an era that for all its appearances of extreme normalcy has come to have about the consciousness level of the first punks. The sphere of political representation is closed. From left to right, it's the same nothingness acting by turns either as the big shots or the virgins, the same sales shelf heads, changing up their discourse according to the latest dispatches from the information service. Those who still vote give one the impression that their only intention is to knock out the polling booths by voting as a pure act of protest. And we've started to understand that in fact it’s only against the vote itself that people go on voting. Nothing we've seen can come up to the heights of the present situation; not by far. By its very silence, the populace seems infinitely more 'grown up' than all those squabbling amongst themselves to govern it do. Any Belleville chibani 1 is wiser in his chats than in all of those puppets’ grand declarations put together. The lid of the social kettle is triple-tight, and the pressure inside won’t stop building. The ghost of Argentina’s Que Se Vayan Todos 2 is seriously starting to haunt the ruling heads. The fires of November 2005 will never cease to cast their shadow on all consciences. Those first joyous fires were the baptism of a whole decade full of promises. The media’s “suburbs vs. the Republic” myth, if it’s not inefficient, is certainly not true. The fatherland was ablaze all the way to downtown everywhere, with fires that were methodically snuffed out. Whole streets went up in flames of solidarity in Barcelona and no one but the people who lived there even found out about it. And the country hasn’t stopped burning since. Among the accused we find diverse profiles, without much in common besides a hatred for existing society; not united by class, race, or even by neighborhood. What was new wasn’t the “suburban revolt,” since that was already happening in the 80s, but the rupture with its established forms. The assailants weren’t listening to anybody at all anymore, not their big brothers, not the local associations assigned to help return things to normal. No “SOS Racism which only fatigue, falsification, and media omertà 4 could feign putting an end. The whole series of nocturnal strikes, anonymous attacks, wordless destruction, had the merit of busting wide open the split between politics and the political. No one can honestly deny the obvious weight of this assault which made no demands, and had no message other than a threat which had nothing to do with politics. But you’d have to be blind not to see what is purely political about this resolute negation of politics, and you’d certainly have to know absolutely nothing about the autonomous youth movements of the last 30 years. Like abandoned children we burned the first baby toys of a society that deserves no more respect than the monuments of Paris did at the end of Bloody Week 5 -- and knows it. There’s no social solution to the present situation. First off because the vague aggregate of social groupings, institutions, and individual bubbles that we designate by the anti-phrase “society” has no substance, because there’s no language left to express common experiences with. It took a half-century of fighting by the Lumières to thaw out the possibility of a French Revolution, and a century of fighting by work to give birth to the fearful “Welfare State.” Struggles creating the language in which the new order expresses itself. Nothing like today. Europe is now a de-monied continent that sneaks off to make a run to the Lidl 6 and has to fly with the low-cost airlines to be able to keep on flying. None of the “problems” formulated in the social language are resolvable. The “retirement pensions issue,” the issues of “precariousness,” the “youth” and their “violence” can only be kept in suspense as long as the ever more surprising “acting out” they thinly cover gets managed away police-like. No one’s going to be happy to see old people being wiped out at a knockdown price, abandoned by their own and with nothing to say. And those who’ve found less humiliation and more benefit in a life of crime than in sweeping floors will not give up their weapons, and prison won’t make them love society. The rage to enjoy of the hordes of the retired will not take the somber cuts to their monthly income on an empty stomach, and will get only too excited about the refusal to work among a large sector of the youth. And to conclude, no guaranteed income granted the day after a quasi-uprising will lay the foundations for a new New Deal, a new pact, and a new peace. The social sentiment is rather too evaporated for all that. As their solution, they’ll just never stop putting on the pressure, to make sure nothing happens, and with it we’ll have more and more police chases all over the neighborhood. The drone that even according to the police indeed did fly over Seine-Saint-Denis 7 last July 14 th is a picture of the future in much more straightforward colors than all the hazy images we get from the humanists. That they took the time to clarify that it was not armed shows pretty clearly the kind of road we’re headed down. The country is going to be cut up into ever more air-tight zones. Highways built along the border of the “sensitive neighborhoods” already form walls that are invisible and yet able to cut them off from the private subdivisions. Whatever good patriotic souls may think about it, the management of neighborhoods “by community” is most effective just by its notoriety. The purely metropolitan portions of the country, the main downtowns, lead their luxurious lives in an ever more calculating, ever more sophisticated, ever more shimmering deconstruction. They light up the whole planet with their whorehouse red lights, while the BAC 8 and the private security companies’ -- read: militias’ -- patrols multiply infinitely, all the while benefiting from being able to hide behind an ever more disrespectful judicial front. The catch-22 of the present, though perceptible everywhere, is denied everywhere. Never have so many psychologists, sociologists, and literary people devoted themselves to it, each with their own special jargon, and each with their own specially missing solution. It’s enough just to listen to the songs that come out these days, the trifling “new French music,” where the petty-bourgeoisie dissects the states of its soul and the K’1Fry mafia 9 makes its declarations of war, to know that this coexistence will come to an end soon and that a decision is about to be made. This book is signed in the name of an imaginary collective. Its editors are not its authors. They are merely content to do a little clean-up of what’s scattered around the era’s common areas, around the murmurings at bar-tables, behind closed bedroom doors. They’ve only determined a few necessary truths, whose universal repression fills up the psychiatric hospitals and the painful gazes. They’ve made themselves scribes of the situation. It’s the privilege of radical circumstances that justice leads them quite logically to revolution. It’s enough just to say what we can see and not avoid the conclusions to be drawn from it.

=====2NC Cards===== 

**<span style="font-size: 11pt; line-height: 1.5;">our counterimage is a conceptual evacuation which refuses to be bound by their rigid, meloncholy politics. this is the only way to preserve human meaning and subversive potential</span>**
**__Thomas '2__** Robert, Lecturer on Humanities, San Francisco State University, "Remnants of the World: Agamben and Messianic Affect" Published in //Crossings//, //Special Issue: The Uses of Religion//, (No.5/6, 2002/2003):
269 - 295 http://www.gestures.org/remnants.pdf

The world has already ended, we just don’t know it yet. What can this statement mean? By stating this, I do not mean that the earth, universe, whatever we want to call “everything that exists (Spinoza’s “God”?) or even immanence itself has radically and literally come to an end, nor do I mean that we are on the verge of imminent apocalypse. What I do mean by this statement, what I hope to capture with this formulation, is the affect (or subjective experience)7 of a life lived in a “state of exception” that has become the norm. In this sense, it is meant to point to the proliferation of the radical separation accomplished in the exception. The “taking of the outside”8 accomplished in the exception is a radical separation of our bodies from themselves, from immanence—the outside, the “world”—as a non-essential, exterior foundation for politics, thought, and subjectivity. In this sense, this statement is meant to point to the despair of a life lived in separation from itself—from, even, its own encounters, relations, and exposures. Life in the state of exception is that which everywhere remains profoundly separated from itself. Life divided from life. A life that is perpetually emptied out, reduced to the brutal fact of mere survival (naked life)—the biopolitical production of life as mere survival.9 What remains of the world in the exception? Insofar as the time of and for the world (the outside) has grown short—insofar as the post-war era is marked by a state of perpetual suspension, a radical deferral and delay of the potential of subjectivity, thought, and politics—we can read this situation as the beginning of the end of time; of and for the political, of and for thought, of and for life. Within the closure of the outside that marks the exception, the time for any potential politics has grown short. There is little time left for the political—that is, before any hope of a politics becomes permanently suspended. Time is running out. The time that is left, the time that remains for life, for politics, for thought, has become contracted. This is the problem of messianic time. According to Agamben, Benjamin was the first to grasp the link between the state of exception and the messianic event in Jewish mysticism; that is, between the status of the law in the “state of exception” and the confrontation with the law marked by the arrival of the Messiah. The arrival of the Messiah does not, as is commonly thought, mark the end of time. It is not, as it has been assumed in many interpretations of Benjamin’s “Theses,” the time of the apocalypse, or the Last Days, but rather a time marked by the suspension of the Law.10 With the arrival of the Messiah, “the hidden foundation of the law [as being in force without significance] comes to light, and the law itself enters into a state of perpetual suspension.”11 The arrival of the Messiah inaugurates a radical suspension of the Law. Messianism is, according to Agamben, “a theory of the state of exception—except for the fact that in Messianism there is no authority in force to proclaim the state of exception; instead, there is the Messiah to subvert its power.”12 In the Jewish tradition, this is the time of the messianic event. Between the time of the creation, which includes the time of the end of the world, and the time after the end of the world, there is the time of the Messiah.13 This time is a remnant—it is the (non-relational) time that remains in the disjunction between two traditional concepts of time (historical or chronological time, and a “future” time after the end of the world).14 Messianic time, then, is an “immanent time. A time within time.”15 What is truly historical is not what redeems time in the direction of the future, or even the past; it is rather what fulfills time in the excess of a medium. The messianic Kingdom is neither the future (the millennium) nor the past (the golden age): it is, instead, a remaining time.16 “Messianism,” as Agamben makes clear, “is not the end of time, but the time of the end.”17 It is the time that is left. What can it mean, Agamben asks throughout Il tempo che resta, to think this remnant of time? Following Agamben, I would like to ask how this contraction of time that marks our present relates to our ability to think and experience something called the world? What can it mean to think the world as that which has already ended, without our being able to say why or, even that we fully know that this event has happened? It is in this image of the end of the world, I think, that the “now of recognizability <Jetz der Erkennbarkeit>”18 of the potential of the world (the outside) and its radical destruction and separation in the exception comes to us. How can we think—when thought itself, according to Deleuze, is based on an exteriority without reserve—in a situation that implies and enforces a radical separation from experience, one that would “take” any, potentially every, encounter with the outside? How, in the “taking of the outside” of the exception, is radical exteriority possible? And how, following Deleuze’s singular individuation, can thought be based on our unique experiences, encounters and relations—all of which “happen” in a space of radical exteriority, in the world— when it is precisely the “taking” of this that is accomplished in the exception? All of this is to ask, how can we think exposure in the exception?19 I am employing the term “world” here in the sense that Nietzsche uses it in his thought of the eternal return which, among much else, is also a theory of the world.20 For Nietzsche, the “world” is the abyss in which subjectivity and exteriority coincide in the exact same moment—a moment that is grasped, or should we say expressed and performed, in the ethical stance of the return: the willing of the eternal return of all that exists (the abyss), and the affirmation of chance and chaos. Deleuze’s statement regarding the loss of the “world” cited above refers, I think, to this conception of the world. In the speculations that follow, I want to delimit my inquiry to this aspect of the return—as an abyssal theory of the world in which subjectivity and exteriority coincide in the same moment (within the abyss). Such delimitation allows us to simultaneously blur the distinction between the ethical and epistemological thought of the return without, at the same time, completely abandoning every aspect of the latter (which seems both unnecessary and undesirable). In this delimited sense, my statement about the end of the world means two things. In the first place, it means the loss of the concept of an abyssal encounter with the world (as an existential-ontological and epistemological foundation) contained explicitly in Nietzsche’s “eternal return.” In other words, the “end of the world” as the experience of the exception means the end of the eternal return, of any truly abyssal thought as the basis for thinking exteriority and subjectivity (I will explain this in more detail below).21 Secondly, my statement is a play on the idea that without such a thought (which has influenced much, if not all, post-war thought on exteriority), we cannot think; it is the end of the world for thought, politics, and subjectivity. In other words, this statement points to the reaction to the thought of the exception and the problems it exposes, the unnecessary fear, I think, with which it has been met by theorists of radical exteriority. The separation from the outside (which is also, to say, from our “selves”) accomplished in the exception means that our ability to have a relation to the world, to make use of its potential—for thought, for life, for politics—has become permanently “policed” in the post-war era. The exception constitutes what Agamben calls a “prior movement”22 not only for our lives, but also for any corresponding theory of exposure, affect, and “becoming.”23 The exception, in other words, may precede our ways of thinking about both subjectivity and exteriority. What can it mean to say that the world and our relation to it have become suspended? Any effort to affirm our lives today as exposure and vulnerability—as the encounter of an abyssal body with an abyssal world— runs up against this limit of a “world” that, defined in this sense, has effectively ended.


**we speak truth to power, they speak truth into power – their project of “intellecutally” investing in a semi-catatonic 80s movement not only overthinks politics to the point of uselessness but also solidifies life negating forces. they protest that evactuation can’t literally save us but that was never the point—fiction, philosophy, and superstition are valuable precisely because they offer a momentary escape from status quo dystopia**
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Pelevin ‘2</span> Victor,Leo Kropywiansky, post-Soviet science fiction author, Buddhist scholar, “Victor Pelevin” Interview, BOMB Magazine, Issue 79 Spring 2002, , LITERATURE http://www.bombsite.com/issues/79/articles/2481
VP Since it happened a long time before I started to write, there’s no way to determine how it affected my writing. However, the effect of this book was really fantastic. There’s an expression “out of this world.” This book was totally out of the Soviet world. The evil magic of any totalitarian regime is based on its presumed capability to embrace and explain all the phenomena, their entire totality, because explanation is control. Hence the term totalitarian. So if there’s a book that takes you out of this totality of things explained and understood, it liberates you because it breaks the continuity of explanation and thus dispels the charms. It allows you to look in a different direction for a moment, but this moment is enough to understand that everything you saw before was a hallucination (though what you see in this different direction might well be another hallucination). The Master and Margarita was exactly this kind of book and it is very hard to explain its subtle effect to anybody who didn’t live in the USSR. Solzhenitsyn’s books were very anti-Soviet, but they didn’t liberate you, they only made you more enslaved as they explained to which degree you were a slave. The Master and Margarita didn’t even bother to be anti-Soviet yet reading this book would make you free instantly. It didn’t liberate you from some particular old ideas, but rather from the hypnotism of the entire order of things. LK What books have you most enjoyed reading in the last few years? In particular I wonder if there are any American authors among your recent favorites. VP I can’t say I read too much fiction. I liked Pastoralia and CivilWarLand in Bad Decline by George Saunders, but his best story I read so far was “I Can Speak!™” published in The New Yorker. I liked some stories by David Foster Wallace and plan to siege his Infinite Jest one infinite day. Talking of the old guard, I like Robert M. Pirsig. The real heroes in his books are concepts rather than humans, and they change and develop like characters do in more traditional novels: this is incredible. LK The ghost of Che Guevara appears in your most recent book, Homo Zapiens, propounding a theory of television as either (1) switched off, in which case it is like any other object, i.e., not any more or less difficult for the unquiet mind to pay attention to than, say, a rock, or (2) switched on, in which case it guides the attention of the viewer to such an extent that he becomes “possessed,” “techno-modified,” “a virtual subject” and no longer himself. In August of 2000, the Ostankino TV tower in Moscow caught fire, interrupting broadcasts for several days and rendering all television sets as objects of type (1). Was there a perceptible change of mood among Moscow citizens at that time? VP I think so. People were getting nervous and irritated, like drug addicts without a routine injection. But there were a lot of jokes about it nevertheless. As for me, I hadn’t been watching television for a long time by that moment, so I didn’t experience any personal problems. LK A big change over the last decade has been the decline in the influence of Russia’s military, which was called upon to fight a difficult war in Chechnya even as morale was falling and resources available to it were shrinking. Your father, who I understand passed away several years ago, was himself in the military. How did he view this decline in influence? VP My father was a rather strange Soviet military man, and never had any particular influence as such. He wasn’t even a party member, which made him kind of a white crow and impeded his career badly. It wasn’t his choice to join the military: the Soviet Union started its missile program when he was a student in Kiev, and many students from technical institutes were drafted to serve in this new branch of armed force as officers. Your consent wasn’t necessary for this at that time. I never had access to the inner workings of my father’s soul but I think he never totally identified himself with the Red Army’s military might, though he was a good specialist. At the time of the decline he was much more concerned with his own health, which was deteriorating quickly. But I think that, like many people who spent their entire lifetime in the USSR, he was too stunned by its demise to take any ensuing events seriously. LK In Homo Zapiens, the Russian government is portrayed as “virtual”: three-dimensional dummies on TV whose movements are scripted by screenwriters. This device seems particularly apt in describing the Yeltsin government, held together as it was with television coverage, funding from tycoons and the IMF, multiple heart bypasses and so forth. Do you believe it has become any less apt now, under the leadership of Putin? VP Phenomenologically any politician is a TV program, and this doesn’t change from one government to another. But if you want me to compare the government we had under Yeltsin with the one we have under Putin, I won’t be able to do it. Not only because I don’t watch television. For this kind of assessment you need a criterion. I guess the right one would be the way the government handles the economy, because its primary function is to take care of the economy. Politics is usually the function of the latter. To pass a judgment here you need to understand, even approximately, how the economy works. In the Western economy you have a set of instruments that allow you to make this assessment even if you are not a specialist. It is always clear whether it is a bull market or bear market. So you can say: bull market, good government, bear market, bad government (I know it is an oversimplification, but still). But these instruments are not applicable to the Russian economy because its very nature is different. The essence of your business cycle here in Russia is that you always have a pig market, which means that you don’t get whacked as long as you pay the pigs. And sometimes you get whacked even if you pay because it is a real pig market. Russian economy is the dimension where miracle meets subpoena and becomes state secret. How do you compare the numerous different governments that preside over this? The only criterion would be personal appeal of the ministers: a goatee fashion, a necktie color, et cetera. But for this you have to watch television. LK Reading philosophy is in some ways a disease, like alcohol or drugs or dog racing or any other addiction. I wonder what Western philosophers you have found most compelling. In particular I wonder if, like the moth Mitya in The Life of Insects, you have a particular affinity for Marcus Aurelius. Here I think of the Marcus Aurelius who insists upon an inner self that can’t be, except by its own assent, corrupted by the outer world. This seems to be a recurring theme in your works: the primacy of the individual mind in the face of a dangerous external world, whether the Soviet one or that of post-Soviet wild capitalism. VP If we put it your way, the most compelling Western philosophers in my life were Remy Martin and Jack Daniels. They compelled me to do many things I otherwise would never think of. If seriously, I don’t take professional philosophers seriously even when I understand what they say. Philosophy is a self-propelled thinking, and thinking, no matter how refined, only leads to further thinking. Uncoerced thinking gives us the best it can when it subsides down and halts, because it is the source of nearly all our problems. As far as I’m concerned, thoughts are justified in two cases: when they swiftly make us rich and when they fascinate us with their beauty. Philosophy could sometimes fit into the first category—for instance, if you write “The Philosophy That Burns Fat” or something like “The Philosophy of Swimming with Sharks without Being Eaten”—but it would be an exception. Sometimes philosophy fits into the second category (also an exception), and Marcus Aurelius is exactly the case. I read his book many times when I was a kid but I’m not sure I understood his philosophy—I was simply captivated by the noble beauty of his spirit. By the way, I read somewhere that Bill Clinton’s favorite quote came from Marcus Aurelius: “One could lead a decent life even in a palace.” The very notion of Western philosophy as opposed to Eastern seems to me quite dubious and arbitrary, though Bertrand Russell wrote a very good book on its history. This label implies that your mind starts to generalize in a different manner when it is placed in a different geographical location. But how would you classify Aldous Huxley’s Perennial Philosophy — as Eastern or Western? As for the self, it is a very tricky notion. We should define it before we use it. I prefer the term mind. I think you are absolutely right when you say that my theme is the primacy of the mind. But the external world is also your mind because the categories external and internal are purely mental. Mind is the ultimate paradox because when you start to look for it you can’t find it. But when you start to look for something that is not mind you also can’t find it. Mind is the central issue that interests me as a writer and as a person.

**Melancholy negates the will to act – it makes us slaves of the powerful and makes our fears of death absurd. Their attempt to frame politics negatively represents a failure to dream that dooms their solvency and independently turns and outweighs the case**

**__Deleuze and Parnet ‘87__**
famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62

When Spinoza says 'The surprising thing is the body ... we do not yet know what a body is capable of ... ', he does not want to make the body a model, and the soul simply de­pendent on the body. He has a subtler task. He wants to demolish the pseudo-superiority of the soul over the body. There is the soul and the body and both express one and the same thing: an attribute of the body is also an expressed of the soul (for example, speed). Just as you do not know what a body is capable of, just as there are many things in the body that you do not know, so there are in the soul many things which go beyond your consciousness. This is the question: what is a body capable of? what affects are you capable of? Experiment, but you need a lot of prudence to experiment. We live in a world which is generally disagreeable, where not only people but the established powers have a stake in transmitting sad affects to us. Sadness, sad affects, are all those which reduce our power to act. The established powers need our sadness to make us slaves. The tyrant, the priest, the captors of souls need to persuade us that life is hard and a burden. The powers that be need to repress us no less than to make us anxious or, as Virilio says, to administer and organize our intimate little fears. The long, universal moan about life: the lack-to-be which is life ... In vain someone says, 'Let's dance'; we are not really very happy. In vain someone says, ‘What misfortune death is'; for one would need to have lived to have something to lose. Those who are sick, in soul as in body, will not let go of us, the vampires, until they have transmitted to us their neurosis and their anxiety, their beloved castration, the resentment against life, filthy contagion. It is all a matter of blood. It is not easy to be a free man, to flee the plague, organize encounters, increase the power to act, to be moved by joy, to multiply the affects which express or encompass a maximum of affirmation. To make the body a power which is not reducible to the organism, to make thought a power which is not reducible to consciousness. Spinoza’s famous first principle (a single substance for all attributes) depends on this assemblage and not vice versa. There is a Spinoza-assemblage: soul and body, relationships and encounters, power to be affected, affects which realize this power, sadness and joy which qualify these affects. Here philosophy becomes the art of a functioning, of an assemblage. Spinoza, the man of encounters and becoming, the philosopher with the tick, Spinoza the imperceptible, always in the middle, always in flight although he does not shift much, a flight from the Jewish community, a flight from Powers, a flight from the sick and the malignant. He may be ill, he may himself die; he knows that death is neither the goal nor the end, but that, on the contrary, it is a case of passing his life to someone else. What Lawrence says about Whitman’s continuous life is well suited to Spinoza: the Soul and the Body, the soul is neither above nor inside, it is ‘with’, it is on the road, exposed to all contacts, encounters, in the company of those who follow the same way, ‘feel with them, seize the vibration of their soul and their body as they pass’, the opposite of a morality of salvation, teaching to soul its life, not to save it.

**Ours is not a critique of their goal but rather of their methodological framing of “fantasy documents” as a “rupture” in violence. It is this attempt to locate an origin to violence, creating a final avatar of Power to oppose that has made many of the masses kill in the name of their servitude and drives many systems of domination. Their attempt to __locate__ a center to violence is __precisely__ the enabling condition for oppression, as it scripts the possibilities for resistance in advance. Our challenge to their description __is__ our alternative. Before establishing the desirability of their policy, we must first understand how they act upon the edifices of Power which they claim to change. Our politicization of thought itself is necessary to a __truly__ liberatory politics of __conceptual mobility__**

**__Deleuze ’87__** Gilles, famous philosopher, Professor of Philosophy at the Sorbonne, (two translations used) //The Opera Quarterly// 21.4 (2005) 716-724 AND Dialogues II, European Perspectives, with Claire Parnet, freelance journalist, translated by Hugh Tomlinson and Barbara Habberjam, 2002 pgs.61-62
How does one "act" on something, and what is the act or actuality of this potential? The act is reason. Notice that reason is not a faculty but a process, which consists precisely in actualizing a potential or giving form to matter. Reason is itself a pluralism, because nothing indicates that we should think of matter or the act as unique. We define or invent a process of rationalization each time we establish human relations in some material form, in some group, in some multiplicity.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT4|4]] The act itself, qua relation, is always political. Reason, as a process, is political. This may well be the case within a city, but it goes for other, smaller groups as well, or even for myself—and nowhere but in myself. Psychology, or rather the only bearable psychology, is politics, because I am forever creating human relationships with myself. There is no psychology, but rather a politics of the self. There is no metaphysics, but rather a politics of being. No science, but rather a politics of matter, since man is entrusted with matter itself. The same even applies to sickness: we have to "manage" it when we cannot conquer it, and thereby impose on it the form of human relationships. Consider the case of sonorous matter. The musical scale, or rather a musical scale, is a process of rationalization that consists in establishing human relationships via this matter in a manner that actualizes its potentiality and it itself becomes human. Marx analyzed the sense organs in this way in order to demonstrate through them the immanence of man and Nature: the ear becomes a human ear when the resonant object becomes musical. The very diverse group of processes of rationalization is what constitutes human becoming or activity, Praxis, or practices. We do not know in this regard if there is such a thing as a human unity, whether from the historical or the generic point of view. Is there a properly human matter, pure potential, distinct from actuality, that has the ability to fascinate us? There is nothing like "freedom" within us that does not also appear as its opposite: as something that "imprisons" us, as Châtelet is always saying. It would be quite obtuse of potentiality to oppose the act capable of realizing it—an inversion of reason, more than its opposite, a privation or alienation. It is as if there were a nonhuman relationship that nevertheless was internal or immanent to human relations, an inhumanity specific to humans: freedom that becomes the capacity of man to vanquish man, or to be vanquished. Potentiality is pathos, which is to say passivity or receptivity, but receptivity is first and foremost the power to receive blows and to give them: a strange kind of endurance. To be sure, one can draw up the history of systems of domination, in which the activity of the powerful is at work; but this activity is nothing without the appetite of those who aspire to give blows in the name of the blows they have received. They fight for their servitude as if it were their freedom, as Spinoza put it. Thus, whether exercised or endured, power is not merely the activity of man's social existence; it is also the passivity of man's natural existence. There is a unity of war [End Page 717] and land, the traces of which Châtelet detected in the work of Claude Simon—or in Marxism, which never separated the active existence of man as a historical being from its "double," the passive existence of man as a natural being: Reason and its irrationality: this was Marx's own theme, [and] it is also ours. . . . He wants to produce a critical science of the actual, fundamental passivity of humanity. Man does not die because he is mortal (any more than he lies because he is a "liar," or loves because he is a "lover"): he dies because he does not eat enough, because he is reduced to the state of bestiality, because he is killed. Historical materialism is there to remind us of these facts, and Marx, in Capital, lays the foundations for what might be a method enabling us to analyze, for a given period—quite a revealing period, in fact—the mechanisms at work in the fact of passivity. . . .[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT5|5]] Aren't there values specific to pathos? Maybe in the form of a despair about the world, something which is quite present in Châtelet, underneath his extreme politeness. If human beings are constantly in a process of mutual demolition, we might as well destroy ourselves, under pleasant, even fanciful conditions. "Of course all life is a process of breaking down," as Fitzgerald said.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT6|6]] This "of course" has the ring of a verdict of immanence: the inhuman element in one's relationship to oneself. Châtelet's only novel, Les années de démolition (The Demolition Years), has a profoundly Fitzgeraldian motif, an elegance in the midst of disaster. It is not a question of dying, or of a desire to die, but of investing the temptation to die in a sublime element like music. Once again, this has less to do with psychoanalysis than with politics. We must take account of this vector of destruction, which can traverse a community or a man, Athens or Pericles. Périclès was Châtelet's first book.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT7|7]] Pericles was always the very image of the great man, or great hero, for Châtelet—even in Pericles's "passivity," even in his failure (which was also the failure of democracy), even in spite of his disturbing trajectory [vecteur ]. Another value proper to pathos is politeness—a Greek politeness, in fact, which already contains an outline of human relationships, the beginnings of an act of reason. Human relationships begin with a reasoned system, an organization of space that undergirds a city. An art of establishing the right distances between humans, not hierarchically but geometrically, neither too far nor too close, to ensure that blows will not be given or received. To make human encounters into a rite, a kind of ritual of immanence, even if this requires a bit of schizophrenia. What the Greeks taught us, and [Louis] Gernet or [Jean-Pierre] Vernant reminded us, is to not let ourselves be nailed down to a fixed center, but to acquire the capacity to transport a center along with oneself, in order to organize sets of symmetrical, reversible relations established by free men. This may not be enough to defeat the despair of the world, for there are fewer and fewer polite men, and there must be at least two for the quality itself to exist. But François Châtelet's [End Page 718] extreme politeness was also a mask concealing a third value of pathos: what one might term goodness, a warm benevolence. The term is not quite right, even though this quality, this value, was deeply present in Châtelet. More than a quality or a value, it is a disposition of thought, an act of thinking. It consists in this: not knowing in advance how someone might yet be able to establish a process of rationalization, both within and outside himself. Of course there are all the lost causes, the despair. But if there is a chance [at establishing a process of rationalization], what does that someone need, how does he escape his own destruction? All of us, perhaps, are born on terrain favorable to demolition, but we will not miss a chance. There is no pure reason or rationality par excellence. There are processes of rationalization—heterogeneous and varied, depending on conditions, eras, groups, and individuals. These are constantly being aborted, receding, and reaching dead ends, and yet resuming elsewhere, with new measures, new rhythms, new allures. The inherent plurality of processes of rationalization is already the object of classic epistemological analyses (Koyré, Bachelard, Canguilhem), and sociopolitical analyses (Max Weber). In his late works, Foucault too pushed this pluralism toward an analysis of human relationships, which would constitute the first steps toward a new ethics from the standpoint of what he called "processes of subjectification": Foucault's analysis emphasized bifurcations and derivations, the broken historicity of reason, which is always in a state of liberation or alienation as it equates to man's relationship to himself. Foucault had to go back as far as the Greeks, not in order to find the miracle of reason par excellence, but merely in order to diagnose what was perhaps the first gesture toward a process of rationalization, and one that would be followed by many others, in different conditions, under different guises. Foucault no longer characterized the Greek polis in terms of the organization of a new space, but as a human relation that could take the form of a rivalry between free men or citizens (in politics, but also in love, gymnastics, or justice . . . ). Within this sort of process of rationalization and subjectification, a free man could not govern other free men, in principle, unless he were capable of governing himself. This is the specifically Greek act or process, which cannot be treated as a foundational act but rather as a singular event in a broken chain. It is undoubtedly here that Châtelet, having taken the Greek polis as his point of departure, meets Foucault. Châtelet defines the Greek polis with reference to the magistrate—not only in terms of how he differs from other functionaries, such as the priest or the imperial civil servant, but also with respect to his correlative duties, which belong to a corresponding process of rationalization (for instance, the drawing of lots). No one has analyzed how the process of drawing lots captures the gist of reason better than Châtelet. For Châtelet, rationalization is also a historical and political [End Page 719] process, in which Athens is its key event yet is also its failure and its erasure—namely, Pericles, from which other events spin off and are absorbed into other processes. Athens was not the advent of an eternal reason, but the singular event of a provisional rationalization, and is as such all the more striking. When we posit a single, universal reason de jure, we are falling precisely into what Châtelet calls presumption—a kind of metaphysical rudeness. He diagnoses this ailment in Plato: even when we recognize that reason is a human, solely human, faculty, a faculty tailored to human ends, we nevertheless continue to grant it theological transcendence. We draw up a dualism of processes instead of a pluralism of processes; this dualism opposes discourse to violence, as if violence were not already concealed within discourse itself, providing it with its various impetuses and ins and outs. For a long time, under the influence of Eric Weil[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT8|8]] and according to a Platonic and Hegelian model, Châtelet believed in the opposition between violence and discourse. But what he discovers, on the contrary, is the ability of discourse to give voice to man's distinct inhumanity. Indeed, it is the purview of discourse to engage the process of its own rationalization, but only in a certain becoming, and due to the pressure of certain motivations and events. This is of extreme importance in Châtelet's La naissance de l'histoire (The Birth of History)[[http://muse.jhu.edu.proxy.lib.umich.edu/journals/opera_quarterly/v021/21.4deleuze.html#FOOT9|9]] , because the image of discourse or Logos that he presents there is closer to Thucydides than to Plato or Hegel. Indeed, he never ceases challenging the two corollaries of a doctrine of universal reason: first, the utopian need to invoke an ideal city or a universal State of right, which would prevent against a democratic future; second, the apocalyptic impetus to locate the moment, the fundamental alienation of reason that occurred once and for all, comprising in one stroke all violence and inhumanity. It is one and the same presumption that grants transcendence to both reason and to reason's corruption, and, since Plato, renders the one the twin of the other.

**Politics is a process, never an outcome -- prioritize the __presence__ of method as a frame to re-energize politics against political oppression**

**__Ai '3__** Wei Wei, famous Chinese artist and dissident, interviewed by Chin-Chin Yap in //Ai WeiWei//: Works: Beijing 1993-2003 p.54-55

If I wake up in the morning and think "oh, today has begun," it's like thinking, "life has begun". Of course, we fabricate threads of continuity, we think, I will continue to see you, or you will continue to see him. This is the burden and absurdity of life. I think life itself is pretty absurd. Perhaps yesterday or tomorrow doesn't exist, or perhaps I won't wake up again; I find these propositions to be more believable. Likewise, I think the future exists in the here and now. To be honest I am quite afraid of the future; I don't like making appointments for the next week. I like to live momentarily, in the present, because I have no way of feeling the future. Take the changing afternoon light which we admire right now; how it will change tomorrow isn't too important.

**The conceit that non-statist forms of community are unable to articulate positive social relations is an epistemic construct of historical statism to ensure dependency -- society is impoverished in order that people will __need__ social security, populations are consolidated in order to highlight the problem of public health for which healthcare can be the solution -- similarly the 1AC constructs the problem of oppression only to make the state seem necessary as a corollary to capital where identity hierarchies fragment solidarity and enable the oppression they pretend to oppose -- turns case**

**__Day ‘5__** Richard, professor in the department of global development at Queen's University “Gramsci is Dead: Anarchist Currents in the Newest Social Movements” http://www.scribd.com/doc/19280772/Gramsci-is-Dead

Once we accept that actually existing non-statist societies are organized societies rather than reversions to, or remnants of, a nasty and brutish ‘state of nature’, we can begin to see that their traditions offer alternatives to the hegemony of hegemony. This theme will be developed further in the following chapter, but for now I want to note that whereas the argument that war is the most potent antidote to the formation of states seems to lead to a brand of right-libertarianism at best, or to the status quo capitalist-patriarchal free-for-all at worst, this mode of warding off the state form involves indigenous/anarchafeminist values of community, care and mutual respect. But still the function of ‘war’ must remain, if by ‘war’ we mean the willingness, on the part of individuals and communities, to defend themselves rather than be captured. In a gesture reminiscent of the long-standing love/hate relationship between anarchist activists and ‘the people’, Deleuze and Guattari observe that ‘the State apparatus needs, at its summit as at its base, predisabled people, preexisting amputees, the still-born, the congenitally infi rm, the one-eyed and one-armed’ (426). The ableist language deployed here must be noted and critiqued, but the metaphorical resonances are clear and important: states require subjects who desire not only to repress others, but also desire their own repression, subjects who are willing to trade away their autonomy for the promise of security. Warding off the state, then, means primarily enabling and empowering individuals and communities; it means, as Landauer argued, rendering the state redundant, and watching very closely that it remains that way. Certainly the men and women of the state understand this requirement from the other side, as evidenced by their systematic attacks on non-statist societies via colonialism, and their incessant work, via secret police forces, the mass media, state schools and ‘social security’, to ensure that as many subjects as possible remain as dependent as possible; that we continue to beg for scraps of food, land, recognition and tolerance, to be allowed to ‘let live’. Although it is important to understand how the state form as such operates, it is impossible to analyse adequately actually existing states without paying attention to their longstanding interactions with other apparatuses. While it is a commonplace to suggest that nation-states are less important now than they were in some era ‘prior’ to capitalist globalization, it is clear that the state form and capital have grown up together, in a relationship that while it may be fraught with localized and short-term animosities, has been in the long term mutually beneficial. Following the same antievolutionary logic that underlies Deleuze and Guattari’s concept of the state form, capitalism—as an apparatus of exploitation—must also be seen as an ever-present potential, a way of being with others that is always possible, if we desire it—perhaps unconsciously—and must always be warded off if we do not. Just as the state and the war machine intermix, capitalism is in a perpetual fi eld of interaction with socialism, that is, with the idea that exploitation should be eliminated, or at least minimized. And we might say that racism, patriarchy, heterosexism, ableism, the domination of nature and any other discourse that carves up the social-natural fi eld into a hierarchy of identities, are apparatuses of division that undermine communitysolidarity and thereby facilitate capture-exploitation.
===Emory Sems-Kinkaid Neg=== 

=====TANF CP/Public Transit PIC (2NR)===== 


**United States federal government should fully fund the Temporary Assistance to Needy Families Program.**

**The counterplan effectively excludes public transit -- public transit is bad because it reinforces structural barriers to job access and locks in poverty**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

We framed this paper around two issues: (1) institutional support and (
AND
**__transit programs where there is no long-term bang for the buck.__**

**Expanding access to public transit systems causes the centralization of impoverished communities in cities**

**__Glaeser et al '8__**, Edward L., Matthew E. Kahn, and Jordan Rappaport. 2008. Why do the poor live in cities? The role of public transportation. Journal of Urban Economics 63, no. 1: 1-24.

**__Our evidence supports the importance of public transportation in explaining the location decisions of the__**
**__AND__**
centralize, at least at U.S. levels of income inequality.

=====2NC NB===== 

**The urbanization of poverty exemplifies precarity -- slum-dwelling represents a form of living death waiting for extermination by the next flood, fire or hurricane**

**__Davis '6__** Mike, Mike Davis is a MacArthur Fellow and the author of //Late Victorian Holocausts// and //Ecology of Fear//. He lives in San Diego and teaches at the University of California, Irvine. This article is adapted from his latest book, [[@http://www.libertybaybooks.com/NASApp/store/Product;jsessionid=a4ohoad5Vnvf?s=showproduct&isbn=1844670228&nationalAffiliateCode=orion|//Planet of Slums//]]. 3/30 http://grist.org/article/davis/

**__Today, new arrivals to the urban margin confront a condition that can only be__**
**__AND__**
**__of natural elements leaves today’s slum residents in an ever more vulnerable state.__**
=== === 
public transit causes urbanization of poverty

**__Glaeser et al '8__**, Edward L., Matthew E. Kahn, and Jordan Rappaport. 2008. Why do the poor live in cities? The role of public transportation. Journal of Urban Economics 63, no. 1: 1-24.

Traditional housing market explanations cannot explain all of the sorting of the poor into central
AND
, **__it follows naturally that transport technologies will determine the structure of cities.__**


**Urbanization makes life harder for poor folks -- turns the aff**

**__Glaeser et al '8__**, Edward L., Matthew E. Kahn, and Jordan Rappaport. 2008. Why do the poor live in cities? The role of public transportation. Journal of Urban Economics 63, no. 1: 1-24.

However, **__urban social problems and the presence of minorities do not explain urban poverty__**
**__AND__**
living apart, the poor choose to live closer to the city center.

=====**2NC Solvency**===== 
**And the counterplan solves better -- many cities are too internally segmented for transit to be effective**

**__Rice '1__** Public Transit and Employment Outcomes Lorien Rice Department of Economics University of California, San Diego E-mail: lrice@econ.ucsd.edu Nov 21, 2001 http://econ.ucsd.edu/~lrice/Transit.pdf

**__Because of the large time advantage from using a private auto, the authors recommend__**
**__AND__**
transit systems might ever be an effective alternative approach to reducing commute times.
**And the counterplan solves**

**__Rice '1__** Public Transit and Employment Outcomes Lorien Rice Department of Economics University of California, San Diego E-mail: lrice@econ.ucsd.edu Nov 21, 2001 http://econ.ucsd.edu/~lrice/Transit.pdf

Such research would be especially relevant at this time, given that **__there have been__**
**__AND__**
**__transfer donated cars to welfare recipients for free, or at reduced cost.__**

**Scholarly consensus favors the counterplan over the plan -- none of their evidence is comparative**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

First, **__there is an ongoing debate if federal money should be used to buy__**
**__AND__**
and Blumenberg 1998; O'Regan and Quigley 1998; Raphael and Rice 2002).

=====1NC K===== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">the affs politics are obsolete and ineffective – the 08 crisis represented a shift from neoliberalism to a postliberal system which utilizes state intervention to fragment reistance by interacting solely with the productive aspects of individuals –but this increases domination and prevents coalescence of imperceptible politics which are the only viable avenue for solvency </span>
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Tsianos et al. ‘12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. (“This Is Class War from Above and They Are Winning It: What Is to Be Done?” //Rethinking Marxism// VOLUME 24 NUMBER 3 [JULY 2012] Ajones)</span>

<span style="font-size: 12pt;">In the long history of capitalism the power of exit, escape, or imperceptible </span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">other postliberal actors </span>**</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(such as civil society organizations or the public domain).</span>

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">their mechanism structures urban space as a haven of productive economy which reifies biopolitical control of the homeless and other non productive individuals while simultaneously stifling any potential for creative, radical change beneath the surface of everyday life </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Jeff </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Ferrell 12</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> - Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Texas Christian University, Fort Worth, TX (“Anarchy, Geography and Drift” Antipode Vol. 44 No. 5 2012 ISSN 0066-4812, pp 1687–1704 Ajones)</span>
<span style="font-size: 12pt;">The open spaces of contemporary social life are</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">, it seems, </span><span style="font-size: 12pt;">being suffocated</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">toward open urban space and those who would occupy or traverse it inappropriately</span>**</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">refuse the 1ac call to engineer infrastructure of pointless misery in the name of constructed political identities – only reclaiming space liberated from the pointless drive for commerce and profit can remake society. </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Raoul </span><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">__<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Vaneigem 11</span>__</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> – Situationist philosopher ( “No borders no papers” Source: Retrieved on January 10, 2011 from www.noborderbxl.eu.org, http://theanarchistlibrary.org/library/raoul-vaneigem-no-borders-no-papers Ajones)</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">There was a time when the anarchist Albert Libertad, having a premonition of the </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">your right to be happy creating good conditions for the benefit of all</span>**</span>**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>**

=====**1NC Case**===== 
**Yo -- you 1ac double-turns itself -- JARC __de-funds__ anti-poverty transit solutions and is geared towards __local__ control -- not federal**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">One important aspect of the JARC program was that TEA-21 limited funding of </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AND</span>__**
the fixed route or existing mass transit systems (Government Accounting Office 1998).

**__Lack__ of federal control of JARC hampers effectiveness -- GAO doesn't even __monitor__ the program's outcomes**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

There is no question that __the JARC programs distributed a large sum of transportation funding__
__AND__
__raises a legitimate point about the long-term sustainability of JARC programs.__

**Transit for commuting alone is insufficient to solve their impacts -- this article is about JARC**

**__Rice '1__** Public Transit and Employment Outcomes Lorien Rice Department of Economics University of California, San Diego E-mail: lrice@econ.ucsd.edu Nov 21, 2001 http://econ.ucsd.edu/~lrice/Transit.pdf

Another consideration is **__that transportation may be only one of several barriers to employment for__**
**__AND__**
**__, job training programs, child care facilities, and other necessary destinations.__**

**JARC is a bureaucratic clusterfuck**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

Finally, in a post welfare-to-work era, **__working on a__**
**__AND__**
the magnitude of institutional support for any given JARC program (Blumenberg 2002).

=====2NC Solvency===== 


**Here's the deal -- cx of the 1ac zach said lack of funding and two mch state control were the two problems with squo transit. the JARC program is __cost-shifting measure__ designed to eliminate funding for low-income access to tranportation by forcing states and cities to pay up-front for a greater percentage of the expense. This program doesn't address the structural issues surrounding poverty and at best is a band-aid solution**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

The **__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">critics of JARC were right to ask whether JARC programs were merely a cosmetic </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AND</span>__**
crises have led to the proposed elimination of JARC programs (Curry 2007).

**Here's more evidence -- JARC is a __devolution__ program**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

Second, building on the theme of collaborative policy design, **__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">the federal government encouraged </span>__**
**__<span style="font-size: 14pt;">AND</span>__**
to non-traditional transportation providers (i.e., grassroots organizations).

**Program oversight is __only__ by regional transit authorities**

**__Sandoval et. al '9__** A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions //J.S. Onésimo Sandoval, St. Louis University Eric Petersen, Cambridge Systematics Kim L. Hunt, O-H Community Partners,// Ltd. http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf

In Chicago, **__implementing the various JARC projects turned out to be considerably more challenging__**
**__AND__**
area—essentially the entire CATS proposal (Chicago Area Transportation Study 1998).

**Improved access to mass transit does not correlate to employment opportunities**
Thomas W. **Sanchez et al 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas W. Sanchez, associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia, Rich Stolz, Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change, Jacinta S. Ma, Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, The Civil Rights Project, Harvard University and the Center for Community Change, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>
__Urban public transportation systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> operate most efficiently in concentrated, densely developed urban areas. </span>
__AND__
__between public transportation access to employment locations and rates of employment of minorities.__


**Even if they have public transit, access to it by minorities is hindered by poverty – merely expanding can’t solve**
Thomas W. **Sanchez et al 2003** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas W. Sanchez, associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia, Rich Stolz, Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change, Jacinta S. Ma, Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, The Civil Rights Project, Harvard University and the Center for Community Change, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>
__Although the large majority of K–12 students do not need to rely on__
__AND__
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">miles of their school must walk or provide their own means of transportation.</span>

**Tons of Alt Causes –**
**(A) you totally jack rural communities.**
**Bullard 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Robert, Ware Professor of Sociology, Director, Environmental Justice Resource Center, Clark Atlanta University, “13th Annual Symposium on contemporary urban challenges: Urban Equity: Considerations of race and the road towards equitable allocation of municipal services: Addressing urban transportation equity in the United States” Fordham Urban Law Journal -- October -- lexis]</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the real world, all transit is not created equal. In general, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">passengers have incomes of less than $ 15,000 per year." 65</span>

**(B) Federal housing and welfare policies – your author.**
**Johnson 11.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Olatunde C.A. Johnson* Associate Professor of Law, Columbia Law School¶ Columbia Law Review¶ January, 2011¶ Columbia Law Review¶ 111 Colum. L. Rev. 154</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Civil rights commentary has not centrally focused on the connection between race and federal spending</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
__wealth, and to current patterns of segregation and concentration of poverty__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 17</span>

**Transportation equality impossible**
**Martens et al, 2012****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Karel Martens, Institute for Management Research, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlans; Aaron Golub, School of Geographical Sciences and Urban Planning and School of Sustainability, Arizona State U; Glenn Robinson, School of Engineering and Institute for Urban Research, Morgan State University, “A justice-theoretic approach to the distribution of transportation benefits: Implications for transportation planning practice in the United States,” Transportation Research A 46 (2012), 684-695</span>**

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Let us first consider equal distribution of access in relation to space. __While philosophical__ </span>
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">of equality is hardly suited to guide the distribution of access in practice.</span>__
__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">More precisely, this observation suggests that equality of access cannot be achieved across-the-board</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">and that a non-equal distribution must be proposed explicitly.</span>

**Alt causes to social exclusion- transportation can’t solve**
**Preston 2009** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Transportation Research Group, School of Civil Engineering and the Environment, University of Southampton, “Epilogue: Transport policy and social exclusion—Some reflections” Transport Policy 16 (2009) 140–142 )</span>**

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Alternative approaches to quantification might involve developing measures of social inclusion as part of ongoing </span>
<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">AND</span>
of transport means that it has impacts on many of these primary factors.
**Positive spins on data and contradictory goals empirically hinder effectiveness of JARC**
**Sandoval 09** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(J.S.; Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice; A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions; National Center for Transit Research; 2009; </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is no question that the JARC programs distributed a large sum of transportation funding </span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 7pt;">are the umbilical cord to economic mobility for many low-income families. </span>

**Inherent problems with JARC that the aff can’t solve**
**Stommes et al 2** (Eileen S. Stommes **,** Dennis M. Brown, and **Capree** M. Houston**.** “Moving Rural Residents to Work: Lessons Learned from Implementation of Eight Job Access and Reverse Commute Projects” Washington, DC 20036-5831 December 2002. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.fta.dot.gov/3630.html#40|http://www.fta.dot.gov/3630.html#40]]</span>)

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How might the program's performance be improved? First, partners indicated that it would </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">capabilities, thereby increasing mobility, and engendering a greater sense of community.</span>


**Improved access to mass transit does not correlate to employment opportunities**

Thomas W. **Sanchez et al 2003** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">[Thomas W. Sanchez, associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia, Rich Stolz, Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change, Jacinta S. Ma, Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, The Civil Rights Project, Harvard University and the Center for Community Change, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>

__Urban public transportation systems__<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> operate most efficiently in concentrated, densely developed urban areas. </span>

__AND__

__between public transportation access to employment locations and rates of employment of minorities.__





**Even if they have public transit, access to it by minorities is hindered by poverty – merely expanding can’t solve**

Thomas W. **Sanchez et al 2003** [<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Thomas W. Sanchez, associate professor of Urban Affairs and Planning and research fellow in the Metropolitan Institute at Virginia Tech in Alexandria, Virginia, Rich Stolz, Senior Policy Analyst at Center for Community Change, Jacinta S. Ma, Legal and Policy Advocacy Associate at The Civil Rights Project at Harvard, “Moving to Equity: Addressing Inequitable Effects of Transportation Policies on Minorities”, The Civil Rights Project, Harvard University and the Center for Community Change, http://civilrightsproject.ucla.edu/research/metro-and-regional-inequalities/transportation/moving-to-equity-addressing-inequitable-effects-of-transportation-policies-on-minorities/sanchez-moving-to-equity-transportation-policies.pdf]</span>

__Although the large majority of K–12 students do not need to rely on__

__AND__

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">miles of their school must walk or provide their own means of transportation.</span>



**Tons of Alt Causes –**

**(A) you totally jack rural communities.**

**Bullard 4**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. [Robert, Ware Professor of Sociology, Director, Environmental Justice Resource Center, Clark Atlanta University, “13th Annual Symposium on contemporary urban challenges: Urban Equity: Considerations of race and the road towards equitable allocation of municipal services: Addressing urban transportation equity in the United States” Fordham Urban Law Journal -- October -- lexis]</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the real world, all transit is not created equal. In general, </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">passengers have incomes of less than $ 15,000 per year." 65</span>



**(B) Federal housing and welfare policies – your author.**

**Johnson 11.** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">Olatunde C.A. Johnson* Associate Professor of Law, Columbia Law School¶ Columbia Law Review¶ January, 2011¶ Columbia Law Review¶ 111 Colum. L. Rev. 154</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Civil rights commentary has not centrally focused on the connection between race and federal spending</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

__wealth, and to current patterns of segregation and concentration of poverty__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. 17</span>



**Transportation equality impossible**

**Martens et al, 2012****<span style="font-size: 8pt;">, [Karel Martens, Institute for Management Research, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlans; Aaron Golub, School of Geographical Sciences and Urban Planning and School of Sustainability, Arizona State U; Glenn Robinson, School of Engineering and Institute for Urban Research, Morgan State University, “A justice-theoretic approach to the distribution of transportation benefits: Implications for transportation planning practice in the United States,” Transportation Research A 46 (2012), 684-695</span>**



<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">Let us first consider equal distribution of access in relation to space. __While philosophical__ </span>

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">AND</span>__

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">of equality is hardly suited to guide the distribution of access in practice.</span>__

__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif;">More precisely, this observation suggests that equality of access cannot be achieved across-the-board</span>__<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">and that a non-equal distribution must be proposed explicitly.</span>



**Alt causes to social exclusion- transportation can’t solve**

**Preston 2009** **<span style="font-size: 8pt;">(John, Transportation Research Group, School of Civil Engineering and the Environment, University of Southampton, “Epilogue: Transport policy and social exclusion—Some reflections” Transport Policy 16 (2009) 140–142 )</span>**



<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">Alternative approaches to quantification might involve developing measures of social inclusion as part of ongoing </span>

<span style="font-family: Times,serif;">AND</span>

of transport means that it has impacts on many of these primary factors.

**Positive spins on data and contradictory goals empirically hinder effectiveness of JARC**

**Sandoval 09** <span style="font-size: 7pt;">(J.S.; Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology and Criminal Justice; A Case Study of Job Access and Reverse Commute Programs in the Chicago, Kansas City, and San Francisco Metropolitan Regions; National Center for Transit Research; 2009; </span><span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 7pt; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.nctr.usf.edu/jpt/pdf/JPT12-4Sandoval.pdf]]</span><span style="font-size: 7pt;">)</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">There is no question that the JARC programs distributed a large sum of transportation funding </span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 7pt;">are the umbilical cord to economic mobility for many low-income families. </span>



**Inherent problems with JARC that the aff can’t solve**

**Stommes et al 2** (Eileen S. Stommes **,** Dennis M. Brown, and **Capree** M. Houston**.** “Moving Rural Residents to Work: Lessons Learned from Implementation of Eight Job Access and Reverse Commute Projects” Washington, DC 20036-5831 December 2002. <span style="color: windowtext; text-decoration: initial;">[[http://www.fta.dot.gov/3630.html#40|http://www.fta.dot.gov/3630.html#40]]</span>)



<span style="font-size: 8pt;">How might the program's performance be improved? First, partners indicated that it would </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">AND</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">capabilities, thereby increasing mobility, and engendering a greater sense of community.</span>




==<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Critique Cites Quarters NDCA Vs. Bronx</span>== 

=====<span style="font-size: 8pt;">1NC</span>===== 


Climate adaptation for transportation infrastructure is a neoliberal shell game which will be hijacked by corporate decision-makers to make it easier to re-locate manufacturing jobs, enable union-busting and back up threats of corporate black-mail through fully globalized offshore product supply chains



Goldstein '12 Dan, Department of Economics @ Allegheny College, "Regional Responses to Climate Change : Class , Capability and Disintegrative Adaptation" Don Goldstein Department of Economics Allegheny College, Meadville, PA 16335, USA dgoldste@allegheny.edu Prepared for “Political Economy and the Outlook for Capitalism ” Joint conference of AHE, IIPPE, FAPE July 5 7, 2012, Paris, http://www.hetecon.net/documents/ConferencePapers/2012Non-Refereed/GOLDSTEIN_Regional_Responses_to_climate_change.pdf



Class dynamics in regional adaptation To show that it will be technically possible to adapt

AND

with environmental opposition blunted by construction union support mobilized by the incinerator company.



The 1AC adaptation of transportation infrastructure is one side of the sovereign salvation coin that establishes those outside of the global North as sacrificial -- the role of social insurance programs in infrastructure codifies the existence of those without state-supported social insurance as "disposable" -- the 1AC makes unAmerican territory into another battlefield in a global civil war



Duffield '8 (Mark, “Global Civil War: The Non-Insured, International Containment and Post-Interventionary Society1” [[http://www.humansecuritygateway.com/documents/JRS_globalcivilwar.pdf]])

For development, decolonization is a site of both continuity and departure. As a

AND

flows linking the developed and undeveloped worlds in the interests of international security.



The impulse to regulate optimum societal outcomes through market-based approaches such as "investment"terminates in the absolute demolition of social value



Harvey '5 David, David Harvey is the Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "A Brief History of Neoliberalism" http://messhall.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/A-Brief-History-of-Neoliberalism.pdf



To presume that markets and market signals can best determine all allocative decisions is to

AND

final point. But his theses on labour and land deserve further elaboration.





Our alternative is to call for a paradigm shift in social relations towards a more equitable distribution of resources. This is a decision-making framework that recognizes a material foundation for autonomy as a prerequisite to democratic communication.



Briscoe '12 Felicia, Professor of Education at UTSA, "Anarchist, Neoliberal, & Democratic Decision-Making: Deepening the Joy in Learning and Teaching" Education Studies, Vol. 48, Issue 1

http://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/00131946.2011.637257#preview



A More Equal Distribution of Resources Emma Goldman describes anarchism as “an order that

AND

, there is little autonomy; without autonomy, authentic communication becomes impossible.

=====2NC===== 


The 1ac is an 8 minute critique of corporatized transportation infrastructure, and their plan is to make this system more resilient to the climate change it caused – this is an incoherent double turn, as much as they will try to characterize solvency around their ‘interrogation’ and ‘reinvestment’ in reality they do __absolutely nothing__  to change the overall system their authors criticize and in fact only __grease the wheels__ of corporate production by implementning a top down strategy which can be coopted and manipulated by corporate interetsts to fracture the possibility of autonomous resistance – that’s our goldstein evidence. Prefer our ev because its specific to climate adaptation transportation investment unlike the 1ac -- they have zero coherent response on a mechanism level which is game over because only a total challenge to neoliberal power relations can foster effective politics of climate adaptation

Goldstein '12 Dan, Department of Economics @ Allegheny College, "Regional Responses to Climate Change : Class , Capability and Disintegrative Adaptation" Don Goldstein Department of Economics Allegheny College, Meadville, PA 16335, USA dgoldste@allegheny.edu Prepared for “Political Economy and the Outlook for Capitalism ” Joint conference of AHE, IIPPE, FAPE July 5 7, 2012, Paris, http://www.hetecon.net/documents/ConferencePapers/2012Non-Refereed/GOLDSTEIN_Regional_Responses_to_climate_change.pdf

With profound climate change now unavoidable, adaptation joins mitigation as urgent tasks. While
AND
, one that will require joint working class and environmentalist struggle to resolve.



Only by placing class antagonism and grassroots coalition building at the center of analysis is it possible to solve for climate adaptation without further empowering neoliberal elites

Goldstein '12 Dan, Department of Economics @ Allegheny College, "Regional Responses to Climate Change : Class , Capability and Disintegrative Adaptation" Don Goldstein Department of Economics Allegheny College, Meadville, PA 16335, USA dgoldste@allegheny.edu Prepared for “Political Economy and the Outlook for Capitalism ” Joint conference of AHE, IIPPE, FAPE July 5 7, 2012, Paris, http://www.hetecon.net/documents/ConferencePapers/2012Non-Refereed/GOLDSTEIN_Regional_Responses_to_climate_change.pdf

Under the status quo , workers are access ing only small numbers of jobs –
AND
technical, problem. Some discussion of this point will close the paper.

they say that we need to look at the way that disasters affect people on an everday basis -- that framing is backwards because neoliberalism is an ongoing disaster for people of color. Even according to their ev the disaster isnt the hurricane it’s neolib itself -- our counterclaim, view the squo as an ongoing disaster--their focus on particularized events distracts us from that.

Tsianos et al. ‘8 Vassilis, teaches sociology at the University of Hamburg, Germany, Dimitris Papadopoulos teaches social theory at Cardiff University, Niamh Stephenson teaches social science at the University of New South Wales. “Escape Routes: Control and Subversion in the 21st Century” Pluto Press

This book is about social transformation; it proposes a processual vision of change.
AND
is simultaneously elusive and forceful enough to challenge the present configuration of control.



According to the blurb of her most famous book, Agathangelou votes neg

Barnes & Noble.com No Date Blurb for "Transforming World Politics: From Empire to Multiple Worlds", http://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/transforming-world-politics-anna-m-agathangelou/1111242110?ean=9780415772808&isbn=9780415772808

This book provides a critical understanding of contemporary world politics by arguing that the neoliberal
AND
feel they have little choice but to retaliate against violence with more violence.


Any link turns the case -- neoliberal approaches to climate adaptation fail -- capital mobility means that corporate managers can simply move operations away from zones of sacrifice to remain insulated from any negative effects of climate change, that is what the aff's TI will be used for

Goldstein '12 Dan, Department of Economics @ Allegheny College, "Regional Responses to Climate Change : Class , Capability and Disintegrative Adaptation" Don Goldstein Department of Economics Allegheny College, Meadville, PA 16335, USA dgoldste@allegheny.edu Prepared for “Political Economy and the Outlook for Capitalism ” Joint conference of AHE, IIPPE, FAPE July 5 7, 2012, Paris, http://www.hetecon.net/documents/ConferencePapers/2012Non-Refereed/GOLDSTEIN_Regional_Responses_to_climate_change.pdf

There is a further dimension to this. Effective routines for scanning and processing outside
AND
debate around climate change adaptation onto terrain more favorable for sustainable regional development.

at: permutation

Our alternative is a prerequisite -- starting points are mutually exclusive

Harvey '5 David, David Harvey is the Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "A Brief History of Neoliberalism" http://messhall.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/A-Brief-History-of-Neoliberalism.pdf

There is a tendency to take up the issue of alternatives as if it is
AND
and thereby to deepen collective understandings and define more adequate lines of action.

The main beneficiaries of their plan are corporations -- the link is a test of their analysis about what their TI gets used for -- expanding transit systems function to consolidate corporate monopoly over the means of distribution

Varman '12 Rahul, a writer for Worker's Education, political economy of India "The Political Economy of Corporations: Behind the Veil of ‘Corporate Efficiency’1"
http://workerseducation.net/the-political-economy-of-corporations-behind-the-veil-of-corporate-efficiency1/

The corporate media as well as the academia have bombarded us with the message that
AND
the characteristic organisational form of capitalist enterprise, in particular under monopoly capitalism.

The federal policy PROCESS of implementing business-as-usual change to transit policy is ideologically mired in neoliberal decision-making to advantage corporate interests -- the permuation hijacks the counterplan

Harvey '5 David, David Harvey is the Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "A Brief History of Neoliberalism" http://messhall.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/A-Brief-History-of-Neoliberalism.pdf

Behind these major shifts in social policy lie important structural changes in the nature of
AND
democracy is overwhelmed, if not totally though legally corrupted by money power.

at: wilderson

this is a double turn with state action, also its bad
Bâ'11 (teaches film at Portsmouth University (UK). He researches ‘race’, the ‘postcolonial’, diaspora, the transnational and film ‘genre’, African and Caribbean cinemas and film festivals)
(Saër Maty, The US Decentred, Cultural Studies Review, volume 17 number 2 September 2011)

A few pages into Red, White and Black, I feared that it would
AND
? The coffle approaches with its answers in tow.’ (340)
a2: coalitions

Neoliberalism is ideologically and historically designed to ideologically fracture coalitions

Harvey '5 David, David Harvey is the Distinguished Professor of Anthropology and Geography at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. "A Brief History of Neoliberalism" http://messhall.org/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/A-Brief-History-of-Neoliberalism.pdf

Values of individual freedom and social justice are not, however, necessarily compatible.
AND
neoliberal market-based populist culture of differentiated consumerism and individual libertarianism. MARKED
As such it proved more than a little compatible with that cultural impulse called ‘postmodernism’ which had long been lurking in the wings but could now emerge full-blown as both a cultural and an intellectual dominant. This was the challenge that corporations and class elites set out to finesse in the 1980s.