[[toc]]
==**Counterplans**== 

==**PPP**== 
=== === 
===**1NC**=== 
The CP is critical to enhance state revenue streams
//Gorton and Sabo 12// - Slade Gorton is a former senator from Washington. Martin Sabo is a former representative from Minnesota. They served as co-chairmen of the Bipartisan Policy Center’s National Transportation Policy Project. Politico, 3-7, [[http://www.politico.com/news/stories/0312/73714.html]]

The Obama administration ………<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> improving transportation infrastructure.</span>


Giving states freedom to finance jumpstarts public-private partnerships which are more effective at improving the economy and ensuring improving infrastructure
//Edwards 11// - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">A big step ……</span> //to the broader economy.//
=== === 
===AT: Links to Ptx=== 

P3s more popular in Congress than federal investment
//Sledge 12// - Matt, Reporter for the Huffington Post based in New York. A graduate of Brown University, he was previously the Rhode Island director for FairVote. HUFFINGTON POST, 2-2

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Congress is divided, however, ……..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the country's infrastructure</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>

P3s popular in House and Senate.
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 13pt;">Reinhardt and Utt ’12 (</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;">William G. Reinhardt is a business journalist with 40 years of experience reporting on the development of transportation, energy, and environmental infrastructure projects worldwide.</span><span style="color: windowtext; font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">Ronald D. Utt, Ph.D.</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 10pt;"> is Senior Research Fellow for the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation where he conducts research on housing, transportation, federal budgetary matters and privatization issues. “Can Public–Private Partnerships Fill the Transportation Funding Gap?” Heritage Foundation, </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman'; font-size: 11pt;">January 12, 2012 [[http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/01/can-public-private-partnerships-fill-the-transportation-funding-gap]]) </span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">To date, all of …..</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in transportation investment.</span>

===<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">AT: Perm</span>=== 

The CP is the opposite of FEDERAL investment
//Inhofe 10// - James M. Hearing: Full Committee hearing entitled, "Innovative Project Finance." 9-28

One of the most <span class="StyleBoldUnderline">……..federal highway bill.</span>



The perm’s addition of multiple levels of government kills transparency, producing higher costs
//Edwards 11// - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Federal infrastructure projects ……. a federal-state project</span>.9

**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">The perm’s addition of multiple levels of government kills transparency, producing higher costs</span>**
**__Edwards 11__** - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11

**__Federal infrastructure projects ….. federal-state project__**.9


**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Federal spending creates a model of failed projects – magnifying our net benefits, increasing long-term local costs</span>**
**__Edwards 11__** - Chris, Joint Economic Committee - United States Congress, Problems with Federal Infrastructure Investment, 11-16-11
Perhaps **__the biggest ……..__**think are extraneous.14

==XO== 
===1NC=== 

<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The counterplan solves and avoids politics</span>
<span style="background-color: aqua;">Thomasson, 12</span> [Scott, president of NewBuild Strategies LLC, an energy and infrastructure consulting firm, former policy director at a nonprofit think tank, has testified before Congress about proposals for financing infrastructure, “Encouraging U.S. Infrastructure Investment,” Council on Foreign Relations Policy Innovation Memorandum No. 17, April, http://www.cfr.org/infrastructure/encouraging-us-infrastructure-investment/p27771]

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Despite the pressing ……</span>//<span style="font-size: 13pt;">executive branch action</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>



Executive orders increase presidential power
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Risen 4</span> [Clay, Managing editor of //Democracy: A Journal of Ideas,// <span class="commentstext">M.A. from the University of Chicago</span> “The Power of the Pen: The Not-So-Secret Weapon of Congress-wary Presidents” The American Prospect, July 16, [[http://www.prospect.org/cs/articles?article=the_power_of_the_pen]]]

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In the modern era, </span><span class="underline">……. to reproductive health</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">. </span>


Prez power solves India Pakistan, North Korea, Middle East nuclear wars
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">South China Morning Post 00</span> [“Position of Weakness” 12-11-00, p. L/N]

<span style="font-size: 11pt;">A weak president</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> …….</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;"> deftly and decisively.</span>

Kashmir conflict results in nuclear extinction
<span style="font-family: Garamond;">Ghulam Nabi Fai Executive Director, Kashmiri American Council, 2001 (Washington Times, 7-8)</span>
<span style="font-family: Garamond; font-size: 6pt;">The foreign policy of …….</span>__<span style="font-family: Garamond;"> the entire globe.</span>__
==**States**== 
===1NC=== 

**The Supreme court needs to devolve transportation infrastructure to states**
<span class="s3">**Frankel et al, 12**</span>– Emily, Visiting Scholar at the Bipartisan Policy Center, with Robert Poole, Director of Transportation Policy at the Reason Foundation, Mary E. Peters, Former Secretary U.S. Department of Transportation, and others (Letter to Senators Boxer and Inhofe and Congressmen Mica and Rahall, Building America’s Future, 5/16/12, Bipartisan Policy Center, and Reason Foundation, http://reason.org/files/bipartisan_coalition_urges_fixes_to_transportation_bill.pdf)RK

<span class="s2">In the</span> current <span class="s2">…….</span> and global competitiveness.

**State action is key to effective transportation infrastructure-4 reasons**
<span class="s3">**Poole ’96**</span>. Robert W. Poole, Jr.“DEFEDERALIZING TRANSPORTATION FUNDING” Oct 1996.
[http://reason.org/files/4883e8bd01480c4d96ce788feb1f2e05.pdf]
<span class="s5">This analysis suggests ……..</span><span class="s6">**-private partnership provisions.**</span>


**The counterplan sends a strong signal of federalism which will be modeled globally**
<span class="s3">**Calabresi, 95**</span> [Steven G, Associate Professor, Northwestern University School of Law. “A Government of Limited and Enumerated Powers,” Michigan Law Review December, 1995]//JJ

The prevailing …….. importance of what is at stake.

**Federalism key to resolve Kashmir crisis**
<span class="s4">Rafiq </span><span class="s3">**Dossani**</span><span class="s4"> Senior Research Scholar at The Shorenstein Asia-Pacific Research Center, Stanford University. and Srinidhi Vijaykumar </span><span class="s3">**2009**</span><span class="s4"> (</span>Indian Federalism and the Conduct of Foreign Policy in Border States: State Participation and Central Accommodation since 1990 Domestic Politics and Indian Foreign Policy, A. Mattoo and H Joseph (eds), New Delhi: Routledge, 2009)
<span class="s6">The issue of Kashmiri …….. at work.</span>

[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]