[[toc]]
==Impacts== 

===**Agriculture**=== 

**Multiple alt causes the aff can’t solve**
**Journal of Commerce, 12 ("Agriculture Trade a 'Risky Business'", April 16, Proquest) //NK//**
//Analysts and economists ………<span class="s2"> **for imported food grew.**</span>//

//**Agriculture fails because essential ground nutrients are lost when harvesting crops**//
//**Drechsel, Kunze and Penning de Vries 01** [Pay Drechsel, Senior Scientist (Environmental and Soil Science) and IWMI's Subregional Director for West Africa , Dagmar Kunze, FAO Regional Office for Africa (RAF), Frits Penning de Vries, was Principal Researcher and Douglas Merrey was Director for Africa, “Soil nutrient depletion and population growth in sub-Saharan Africa: A Malthusian nexus?” Population and Environment. New York: Mar 2001. Vol. 22, Iss. 4; pg. 411, proquest]// CG
In comparison with erosion…………<span class="s2"> **empirical evidence**</span> (Drechsel & Penning de Vries, in press).


**US agriculture exports are higher than ever**
**Western Farm Press 11** – (Western Farm Press, “Agriculture exports to remain strong in 2012,” Western Farm Press, September 2, 2011, [[http://westernfarmpress.com/government/agriculture-exports-remain-strong-2012]]) // CB
<span class="s6">Agriculture exports in fiscal ……………. the rest of the world."</span>

===Terrorism=== 
No impact -- the risk of a successful attack is highly improbable.
<span class="s3">**Mueller 7**</span> – PhD in political science from UCLA, professor of political science at Ohio State University (John Mueller, “Reactions and Overreactions to Terrorism: The Atomic Obsession”, American Political Science Association, July 24, 2007, http://psweb.sbs.ohio-state.edu/faculty/jmueller/APSA2007.PDF)//MG
<span class="s6">**In the case of nuclear …………. uninspiring, even dispiriting.**</span>

===**Warming**=== 
**.**“Scientific consensus” does not exist – labeled “deniers” are on the right side but are silenced
<span class="s8">**Harris '10**</span> [Tom Harris, The Washington Times, 10/14/2010, "Harris: Time to get real about climate change", pg. online @ http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2010/oct/14/time-to-get-real-about-climate-change //bprp]//
//We are very ………….<span class="s6"> dangerous global warming.”</span>//

//**2.** Anthropogenic carbon emissions have too short an airborne life to even increase atmospheric partial pressure//
//<span class="s8">**Segalstad '09**</span> [Tom V. Segalstad, Associate Professor of Resource and Environmental Geology, The University of Oslo, 8/05/2009, "Correct Timing is Everything - Also for CO2 in the Air", pg. online @ , www.co2science.org/articles/V12/N31/EDIT.php// gh-bprp]
<span class="s6">With</span> such <span class="s6">short ………….heated carbonated drink.</span>

**3.** Reducing emissions has miniscule effects on temperature
<span class="s8">**Lomborg '08**</span> [Bjorn Lomborg, director of the Copenhagen Consensus Center and the author of “Cool It:,, 2008, "Cool It: The Skeptical Environmentalist''s Guide to Global Warming", pg. online @ http://books.google.com/books?id=gRLlb_RdfCAC&printsec=frontcover&dq=bjorn+lomborg+cool+it&hl=en&src=bmrr&ei=5UgvTv-SEou_gQfFkY1x&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CDQQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=bjorn%20lomborg%20cool%20it&f=false// bprp]
**At the moment,** ……….<span class="s9">, from 2100 to 2105</span>**.**

===**Heg**=== 

**Heg doesn’t solve conflicts**
<span class="s2">**Preble, 10**</span> Christopher, director of foreign policy studies at CATO, “U.S. Military Power: Preeminence for What Purpose?”, Aug 3rd, [[http://www.cato-at-liberty.org/2010/08/03/u-s-military-power-preeminence-for-what-purpose/]]]

Most in Washington still …………… country pick up the tab.


**Hegemony causes economic collapse – war empiricism proves**
<span class="s10">**Eland 09**</span> (Senior Fellow and Director of the Center on peace and Liberty at the Independent Institute, Director of Defense Policy Studies at the Cato Institute, B.A. Iowa State University, M.B.A. in Economics and Ph.D. in Public Policy from George Washington University, Ivan, The Independent Institute, “How the U.S. Empire Contributed to the Economic Crisis”, May 11th, http://www.independent.org/newsroom/article.asp?id=2498)
A few—and only a few—<span class="s2">**……….**</span>is making us poorer.

**Econ decline turns hegemony**
<span class="s10">**Chicago Tribune, 09**</span> (“Realities and Obama's diplomacy” By Robert A. Pape) http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/nationworld/chi-perspec0308diplomacymar08,0,4785661.story
<span class="s5">For nearly two decades,</span> <span class="s6">**………. maintaining the status quo.**</span>
===**Trade**=== 

**Trade is resilient.**
**Chicago Tribune, ‘8**
[“After Doha,” 8-9, http://www.chicagotribune.com/news/opinion/chi-0809edit2aug09,0,7859688.story]
Even <span class="s1">people ………..</span> 5.5 percent last year.)

**Econ decline doesn’t cause war-recession disproves there impact**
<span class="s2">**Barnett ‘9**</span>(Thomas P.M. Barnett, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” 8/25/2009)
<span class="s4">**When the global ………. liberal trade order**</span><span class="s5">.</span>

**Euro collapse will spark a global financial crisis---plan doesn’t solve Europe**
<span class="s3">**Elliot et al 6/16** </span>2012, *Larry Elliott, *Helena Smith, and *Julia Kollewe are writers for The Guardian, “World Bank warns that euro collapse could spark global crisis,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/16/world-bank-euro-collapse-crisis#start-of-comments, AJ
The outgoing head ………<span class="s6">of trade restrictions</span>."

**No incentive to go to war**
<span class="s1">**Bennett and Nordstrom**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="s1">**2k**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]

In this analysis, ……….. substitutability between them.

===US-Japan Alliance=== 

**Non-unique - US-Japan alliance is resilient—the alliance is very strong and stable:**
**Campbell 10** (Kurt, Assistant Secretary Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs, January 19, “http://www.state.gov/p/eap/rls/rm/2010/01/135400.htm”, TH)

This is ……….. because of the process.

**Disaster Relief has strengthened the alliance**
**Japan Today 11** ( June 20 2011, website commenting on what the secretary of the DPJ said**,**<span class="s1"> **“**</span>Okada says Japan-U.S. alliance deepened through disaster relief”, [[http://www.japantoday.com/category/politics/view/okada-says-japan-u-s-alliance-deepened-through-disaster-relief]], Manchester)

TOKYO — <span class="s1">Democratic Party ……… the March 11 disasters.</span>
**Alt cause – the Futenma issue kills relations and relocation has been delayed indefinitely**
**Wan 6/21** (William, diplomatic correspondent and staff writer for the Washington Post, “Okinawa Marine base move to be delayed”, June 21st, 2011, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/national-security/okinawa-marine-base-move-to-be-delayed/2011/06/21/AGZ4vteH_story.html%20//|http://www.washingtonpost.com/national/national-security/okinawa-marine-base-move-to-be-delayed/2011/06/21/AGZ4vteH_story.html //]] Vish)
<span class="s1">The United States …….. was left uncertain.</span>

===<span class="s1">Econ</span>=== 
**Econ decline doesn’t cause war-recession disproves there impact**
<span class="s1">**Barnett ‘9**</span>(Thomas P.M. Barnett, senior managing director of Enterra Solutions LLC, “The New Rules: Security Remains Stable Amid Financial Crisis,” 8/25/2009)
<span class="s3">**When the global ...........****liberal trade order**</span>.

**Euro collapse will spark a global financial crisis---plan doesn’t solve Europe**
<span class="s2">**Elliot et al 6/16** </span>2012, *Larry Elliott, *Helena Smith, and *Julia Kollewe are writers for The Guardian, “World Bank warns that euro collapse could spark global crisis,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/business/2012/jun/16/world-bank-euro-collapse-crisis#start-of-comments, AJ
The outgoing head ...........<span class="s4"> of trade restrictions</span>."

**No incentive to go to war**
<span class="s3">**Bennett and Nordstrom**</span>, Department of Political Science Professors at Pennsylvania State, <span class="s3">**2k**</span> [Scott and Timothy, “Foreign Policy Substitutability and Internal Economic Problems in Enduring Rivalries,” Journal of Conflict Resolution, February, Ebsco]

In this analysis, ........substitutability between them.

**Econ resilient**
Fareed <span class="s3">**Zakaria**</span> (editor of Newsweek International) December <span class="s3">**2009**</span> “The Secrets of Stability,” http://www.newsweek.com/id/226425/page/2]
<span class="s3">**One year ago, ........**</span> each historical in nature.

**US isn’t key to the global economy --- decoupling solves**
<span class="s3">**Hong**</span>, writer for Xinhua, 20<span class="s3">**08**</span> [Liu, Rise of emerging markets shapes global economic map, Xinhua, 8/24, http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2008-08/25/content_9706441.htm]

<span class="s5">WASHINGTON, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- ............." he told Xinhua. </span>

**No impact economic competitiveness can’t solve heg**
<span class="s1">**Krugman 11** </span>– joined The New York Times in 1999 as a columnist on the Op-Ed Page, professor of Economics and International Affairs at Princeton University, became the Ford International Professor of Economics at MIT, one of the founders of the "new trade theory," American Economic Association awarded him the John Bates Clark medal (Paul, “Paul Krugman: Competitiveness deficit not cause of economic collapse,” January 24, 2011, [[http://www.daytondailynews.com/opinion/columnists/paul-krugman-competitiveness-deficit-not-cause-of-economic-collapse-1062908.html]]) // CB
Meet the new buzzword, ...........<span class="s3">economy to regulate itself. </span>


===<span class="s1">**Space Colonization**</span>=== 

**A. High Transportation Costs**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
Lack of Affordable Transportation t.......<span class="s2">even with success</span>?"

**B. Launch Vehicles aren’t safe**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
<span class="s2">Poor Safety Record .........</span> revenue is reduced.

**C. No Closed-Loop Life Support System**
<span class="s1">**Woodcock 11**</span> (Gordon R. Woodcock, Published over 100 Space Exploration books, On the NASA Advisory Board, Executive Vice President of the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Technological Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/technological.html, 4/24/2011)
No Closed-Loop Life Support System .......perhaps much longer.


**D. No Long Term Government Funding Mechanism**
<span class="s1">**Hopkins 11**</span> (Mark Hopkins, Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html, 4/24/2011)
No Long-term Government ........... can do the best job.

**E. Lack of incentives for Capital Investment**
<span class="s1">**Hopkins 11**</span> (Mark Hopkins, Chairman of the Executive Committee for the National Space Society, “NSS Roadmap: Economic Barriers to Space Settlement”, http://www.nss.org/settlement/roadmap/economic.html, 4/24/2011)
Lack of Incentives for Capital Investment: .........<span class="s2">reusable launch vehicles (RLVs</span>).

===China War=== 

**Relations high-Hu Jintao affirmed relations**
<span class="s1">**Xinhua 7-25**</span>[“President Hu emphasizes healthy China-U.S. relationship”; July 25, 2012; http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/video/2012-07/25/c_131737508.htm]
BEIJING, July 25 (Xinhuanet) -- ….. region and the globe."

**No war- China has too many domestic problems**
<span class="s1">**Kissinger, 12**</span>(Henry A., chair of Kissinger Associates and a former U.S. Secretary of State and National Security Adviser. “The Future of U.S.-Chinese Relations: Conflict Is a Choice, Not a Necessity.” March/April //Foreign Affairs//)
<span class="s3">**Another reason ……..**</span> of China's evolution.

**China isn’t seeking expansionism or ideological sway-conflict isn’t probable**
<span class="s1">**Dobbins 12**</span> [ James Dobbins directs the International Security and Defense Policy Center at the RAND Corporation. He <span class="s2">¶ </span>has previously served as American Ambassador to the European Community and Assistant Secretary of State. This article is excerpted from the RAND study ‘Conﬂ ict with China: Prospects, Consequences and Strategies for Deterrence’ by James Dobbins, David C. Gompert, David A. Shlapak and Andrew Scobell; “War with China”; Survival | vol. 54 no. 4 | August–September 2012 | pp. 7–24]//JJ

It is important ……. throughout this period.

<span class="s4">**No war- economic ties and other allies in the region make it too risky**</span>
<span class="s5">**Hsu, 11**</span><span class="s4">**(Jeremy-staff writer. “Economic Ties Could Help Prevent US-China War.” 11/1. http://www.msnbc.msn.com/id/45125209/ns/technology_and_science-innovation/t/economic-ties-could-help-prevent-us-china-war/)**</span>
<span class="s4">**The Rand …….. by the Rand report.**</span>

**No war – China is deterred by the US-no incentive to attack**
<span class="s6">**Chen Jen-Shuai 8**</span>(Writer for the Henry L. Stimson Center, September 2008 http://www.stimson.org/eastasia/pdf/Col_Chen_Report_SEP_08.pdf )
The Chinese are slowly …….<span class="s3"> is actually widening</span>.

===Europe War=== 

**Nationalism and instability inevitable, but they won’t cause EU war.**
**Walt, ‘11**
[Stephen, Robert and Rene Belfer Professor of International Affairs at Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School, 8-18, “The coming erosion of the European Union,” [[http://walt.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2011/08/18/the_coming_erosion_of_the_european_union]]]
I began with …….. at least not the way it once was.


[[include page="space.template.Footer"]]