=T-Substantial= 
====A. Interpretation—a substantial investment is over 20%==== 
**Traficant et. al 89** – former member of US House of Representatives(James, written with other Congressmembers, Bill Summary & Status 101st Congress (1989 - 1990) H.R.2489, 5/24/89, http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi-bin/bdquery/z?d101:h.r.02489:)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">(</span>__C) SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENT DEFINED- The term `substantial investment' means any amount which--__
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">`(i) was added to the capital account for an existing facility during the 3-year period ending on the last day of any taxable year with respect to which such facility is a tax holiday plant, and</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">`(ii) </span>__caused the sum of all amounts added to such account during such period to exceed 20 percent of the total value of such facility__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (determined in the manner provided in subparagraph (B)(ii)) on the first day of such period.</span>
====Current transportation infrastructure spending is $48.1 billion==== 
**GAO 11** – Investigative arm of Congress charged with examining matters relating to the receipt and payment of public funds (Government Accountability Office, Funding Used for Transportation Infrastructure Projects, but Some Requirements Proved Challenging, 6/29/11, http://www.gao.gov/products/GAO-11-600)
__This report responds to two GAO mandates under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). It is the latest report on the uses of and accountability for Recovery Act funds in selected states and localities, focusing on the $48.1 billion provided to the Department of Transportation (DOT) to invest in transportation infrastructure.__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> This report also examines the quality of recipients' reports about the jobs created and retained with Recovery Act transportation funds. This report addresses the (1) status, use, and outcomes of Recovery Act transportation funding nationwide and in selected states; (2) actions taken by federal, state, and other agencies to monitor and ensure accountability for those funds; (3) changes in the quality of jobs data reported by Recovery Act recipients of transportation funds over time; and (4) challenges faced and lessons learned from DOT and recipients. GAO analyzed DOT and recipient reported data; reviewed federal legislation, guidance, and reports; reviewed prior work and other studies; and interviewed DOT, state, and local officials.</span>

=T-Direct Spending= 
====A. Interpretation—“Infrastructure investment” requires spending==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">CBO 8</span> (Congressional Budget Office, “Issues and Options in Infrastructure Investment”, http://www.cbo.gov/sites/default/files/cbofiles/ftpdocs/91xx/doc9135/05-16-infrastructure.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Current Spending on Infrastructure</span>
Under //any definition//, “infrastructure investment” encompasses //spending// on avariety of projects<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. For present purposes, it is useful to distinguish transportation, which receives the bulk of federal support, from other types of infrastructure, such as utilities. Both types of assets promote other economic activities: An adequate road, for example, facilitates the transport of goods from one place to another and thereby promotes economic activity; utilities that provide such services as electricity, telecommunications, and waste disposal are also essential to modern economies. (Appendix A describes spending on research and development and on education. Those categories form the basis for supporting intellectual and human capital, respectively, and can provide benefits that are similar to those generated by infrastructure spending.)</span>

=T-Not Maintenance= 
====A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance==== 
**Lemer 11** - worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])
What has been neglected<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in all of the analyses that I have seen </span>is an explicit consideration of maintenance spending, as distinct from investment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. </span>Infrastructure<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, like most engineered systems, </span>requires periodic care to keep it functioning properly<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. Leaves, trash and other debris clog drains that channel rainwater away from roadways must be cleaned out. Filters that remove silt and bacteria from drinking water must be flushed. </span>The costs of such maintenance effort typically are accrued in different accounts from those the represent “investment<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.” But if maintenance is neglected, the quality of services and longevity of facilities swill be impaired. My discussions with people who manage maintenance in public works agencies suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect.</span>
=T-Not Military= 
====“Transportation infrastructure” is strictly defined as facilities of transport --- this excludes security, law enforcement, and military support==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Musick 10</span> (Nathan, Microeconomic and Financial Studies Division – United States Congressional Budget Office, Public Spending on Transportation and Water Infrastructure, p. 2)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Although different definitions of "infrastructure" exist, this report focuses on</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> two types that claim a significant amount of federal resources: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and water. Those types of infrastructure share the economic characteristics of being relatively capital intensive and producing services under public management that facilitate private economic activity. They are typically the types examined by studies that attempt to calculate the payoff, in terms of benefits to the U.S. economy) of the public sector's funding of infrastructure.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">For the purposes of CBO's analysis, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">"</span>transportation infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">" </span>include<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">s</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the </span>systems and facilities<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> that support</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> the following types of activities:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Vehicular transportation: highways, roads, bridges, and tunnels</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">;</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>Mass transit<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> subways, buses, and commuter rail;</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span>Rail transport<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> primarily the intercity service provided by Amtrak;*</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Civil aviation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: airport terminals, runways, and taxi-ways, and facilities and navigational equipment for air traffic control: and</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Water transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">: waterways, ports, vessel*, and navigational systems.</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The category "water infrastructure" includes facilities that provide the following:</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Water resources: containment systems, such as dams, levees, reservoirs, and watersheds; and sources of fresh water such as lakes and rivers; and</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">■</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Water utilities: supply systems for distributing potable water, and wastewater and sewage treatment systems and plants.</span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Consistent with</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> CBO'% </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">previous reports on public spending for transportation</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and water </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">infrastructure, this update excludes spending that is associated with such infrastructure but does not </span>//contribute directly//to<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> the provision of infrastructure facilities or certain </span>//strictly defined// infrastructure services<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. Examples of </span>//excluded//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> spending are federal outlays for </span>//homeland security//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (which are especially pertinent to aviation), </span>//law enforcement//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and </span>//military functions//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> (such as</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> those carried out by </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the Coast Guard), and cleanup operations (such as</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> those </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">conducted by the Army Corps of Engineers following</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Hurricane </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Katrina</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in 2005).</span>

=T Vehicles= 


====Interpretation:==== 

====Transportation Infrastructure excludes Vehicles==== 

<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">EEA 12</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[http://www.eea.europa.eu/data-and-maps/indicators/infrastructure-investments, Feb 17, 2012 10:07 AM, The European Environment Agency, the European Commission has set itself the objective of offering users high-quality and safe infrastructure that includes all transport modes and to allow for optimal use of existing capacities by either creating new or upgrading existing infrastructure] </span>


The term “transport infrastructure” refers only to infrastructures<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> that are open to the general public</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">. It covers buildings and other constructions as well as machinery and equipment, but </span>it excludes vehicles<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> and rolling stock.</span>
=T In= 
====Interpretation:==== 
====In means within==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Collins 09</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">Collins English Dictionary - Complete & Unabridged 10th Edition¶ 2009 © William Collins Sons & Co. Ltd. 1979, 1986 © HarperCollins¶ Publishers 1998, 2000, 2003, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009, Pioneers in dictionary publishing since 1819The Collins English Dictionary is an important printed and online dictionary of English. It is published by HarperCollins in Glasgowhttp://dictionary.reference.com/browse/in?s=t]</span>
in<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> 1 (ɪn) — </span>prep<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">1. </span>Inside; within<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">: no smoking in the auditorium</span>

====United States means the 50 states==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Random house 06</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/united+states?s=t, Based on the Random House Dictionary, © Random House, Inc. 2013. , Random House Webster's Unabridged Dictionary is a large American dictionary, first published in 1966 as The Random House Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged]</span>
United States¶ noun¶ a republic<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the N Western Hemisphere </span>comprising 48<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> conterminous </span>states<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the </span>D<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">istrict of </span>C<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">olumbia, and </span>Alaska<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in North America, </span>and Hawaii<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> in the N Pacific.</span> Conterminous United States, 3,022,387 sq. mi. (7,827,982 sq. km); with Alaska and Hawaii, 3,615,122 sq. mi. (9,363,166 sq. km). Capital: Washington, D.C. Abbreviation: U.S., US
=T Energy= 
====Interpretation:==== 
====Transportation infrastructure is roads, airports, ports, and rail. Pipelines are energy infrastructure.==== 
<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">Commander 10</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[http://www.heidrick.com/ExecutiveSearch/Industry/Industrial/Pages/ECI.aspx, Engineering, Construction & Infrastructure, Heidrick & Struggles Charles Commander, Sector Leader (Global & Americas)] </span>
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">While the term </span>infrastructure is<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> widely used to cover </span>a range of asset classes<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, traditionally it has been used to describe three specific categories of physical assets</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">:</span><span style="font-size: 8px;"> ¶</span>Transportation - infrastructure such as airports, ports, roads and rail<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">etc.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>Energy**__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> -</span> infrastructure such as power stations__** and gas distribution pipelines<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Social - infrastructure such as schools, hospitals and prisons</span>