=1AC= 
==Plan== 

====__Plan__: TheUnited States federal government should substantially increase its transportation infrastructure investment in the Port Security Grant Program.==== 
=Inherency= 
====Vital port safety deadlines were missed – odds of a successful WMD attack are high==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Frantz, 7-15</span>-12 – Douglas, "Port security: U.S. fails to meet deadline for scanning of cargo containers," Washington Post, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html-http://www.washingtonpost.com/world/national-security/port-security-us-fails-to-meet-deadline-for-scanning-of-cargo-containers/2012/07/15/gJQAmgW8mW_story.html]].
The Obama administration has failed to meet a legal deadline for scanning all shipping containers
AND
who wants to get a weapon of mass destruction into the United States."


====Solutions exist but drastic cuts to the Port Security Grant Program destroy port security==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kimery, ~’12</span> – Anthony, "Security, Port Authorities Associations Urge DHS To Reconsider Port Allocations," Homeland Security (HS) Today, http://www.hstoday.us/focused-topics/counternarcotics-terrorism-intelligence/single-article-page/security-port-authorities-associations-urge-dhs-to-reconsider-port-allocations.html
This week the Security Industry Association (SIA), along with the American Association of
AND
"Many of these projects are scalable and ready to be implemented now."


====Cost and technology aren~’t barriers – failure to act immediately is fatal==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Markey et al</span>, ~<span style="font-size: 13pt;">’12</span> – Jerrold L. Nadler, Edward J. Markey and Bennie G. Thompson are Democratic representatives from New York, Massachusetts and Mississippi, respectively. "Cargo; the Terrorists~’ Trojan Horse," New York Times, 6-27, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html-http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/27/opinion/the-dangerous-delay-on-port-security.html]].
MILLIONS of cargo containers are unloaded from ships each year at American seaports, providing
AND
, to no avail. Our nation can no longer risk such delays.


====Only more grant investment in infrastructure can solve==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">AAPA</span>, ~<span style="font-size: 13pt;">’11</span> – The American Association of Port Authorities represents about 150 of the leading public port authorities in the United States, Canada, Latin America and the Caribbean. In addition, the Association represents some 250 sustaining and associate members, firms and individuals with an interest in the seaports of the Western Hemisphere. "10 Years After 9/11, Security Still a Top Priority of U.S. Ports," Sept 1, [[http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html-http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/10-years-after-911-security-still-a-top-priority-of-us-ports-128888213.html]].
In the decade since Sept. 11, 2001, America~’s seaports and the federal
AND
job creation and economic prosperity, and important partners in our national defense."



====Obama~’s investing political capital in limited disbursement of PSGP funds now==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mayle</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">7</span>-<span style="font-size: 13pt;">20</span>**-12 – Mary Carr, "GPA gets added security grant funds," Savannah Now, [[http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds~~#.UCChA_ZmTnQ-http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds|http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds~~#.UCChA_ZmTnQ-http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds]].
The Georgia Ports Authority has been awarded nearly a half-million dollars in federal
AND
certain South Carolina lawmakers and commission members off Georgia~’s case? Stay tuned.


====Ports are uniquely federal because the transportation role is inherently cross-border==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB</span>, ~<span style="font-size: 13pt;">’4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. "The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role," Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].
The physical and use characteristics described above have inﬂuenced the¶ nature and scope of
AND
with funding¶ assistance and standards for design, equipage, and operations.



====Your DA links are non-unique: New PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing==== 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI</span>, <span style="font-size: 13pt;">7-9</span>-**12 – Port Technology International, "Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants," http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.



====Federal enforcement is key for to effective port infrastructure security coordination==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB, ~’4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. "The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role," Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf-http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].
As the only U.S. military service with law enforcement authority, the
AND
and to the Coast Guard and other federal agencies charged with implementing them.
=<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPG</span>= 

====The Port Security Grant Program success is vital to fulfilling the National Preparedness Goal==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’12</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, Port Security Grant Program, http://www.fema.gov/port-security-grant-program.
1. What is the purpose of the FY 2012 PSGP? ¶The purpose
AND
can be provided to one of the core capabilities¶within the NPG.

====The NPG is critical to __coordination__ against __large-scale__, __catastrophic__ events==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fugate, ’11</span> – Craig, Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, former Director of the Florida Division of Emergency Management, PPD-8: Announcing the National Preparedness Goal, [[http://www.whitehouse.gov/blog/2011/10/07/ppd-8-announcing-national-preparedness-goal]].
As part of the implementation of Presidential Policy Directive 8 (PPD-8),
AND
you can participate. Thank you for your commitment to our national preparedness.

====The NPG is //necessary// to solving __each__ internal link==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
In accordance with PPD-8, and in coordination with Federal departments and agencies
AND
as ¶ part of the recurring update of the Strategic National Risk Assessment.

====__Cybersecurity__ is vital to prevent __escalatorygreat power__ nuclear war==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Fritz, 9</span> – Masters in International Relations, Researcher for International Commission on Nuclear Nonproliferation and Disarmament (Jason, 2009, “Hacking Nuclear Command and Control,” http://icnnd.org/Documents/Jason_Fritz_Hacking_NC2.pdf)
This paper will analyse the threat of cyber terrorism in regard to nuclear weapons.
AND
its own, without the need for compromising command and control centres directly.

====__Pandemics__ at ports //instantly// kill __billions__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Greger, ‘6</span>**–** Director of Public Health and Animal Agriculture at The Humane Society of the United States.Michael, graduate of the Cornell University School of Agriculture and the Tufts University School of Medicine. Also an internationally recognized lecturer, he has presented at the Conference on World Affairs, the National Institutes of Health, and the International Bird Flu Summit, among countless other symposia and institutions. “Population Bust” http://www.Birdflubook.com]
A pandemic today could be many times worse than the pandemic of 1918, the
AND
…. We are half a step away from a worldwide pandemic catastrophe.”579

====Pandemics outweigh on __probability__ and __size__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Zakaria, ‘5</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>Fareed, “A Threat Worse than Terror,” 10-31, Newsweek, [[http://www.fareedzakaria.com/ARTICLES/newsweek/103105.html]]<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
A flu pandemic is the most dangerous threat the United States faces today," says
AND
for the first time. No such expertise exists for today's deadliest threat.

====__Natural disasters__ threaten human extinction __faster__ than any warscenario==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sid-Ahmed, ‘5</span> – Yeah, it’s the same guy [Mohamed. “The post-earthquake world.” Al-Ahram Weekly Online. Jan 6-12, 2005. [[http://weekly.ahram.org.eg/2005/724/op3.htm]]]
The human species has never been exposed to a natural upheaval of this magnitude within
AND
now forced to live with the possibility of an imminent demise of humankind.

====Transnational threats are try or die for human extinction==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Feffer, ‘9</span>. John, Contributing Member/Researcher at Foreign Policy in Focus, “World Beat,” FPIF, Feb 17. Vol. 4 No. 7. Lexis.
The neoconservative movement thrilled towhat it called the "unipolar moment." After the Berlin
AND
an empire. I can hear the adding machine totting up the numbers.

====//Only// the NPG can develop a __framework__ for //effective//__risk management__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, 7-10</span> – Federal Emergency Management Agency, “Presidential Policy Directive 8: National Preparedness,” Updated on July 10th (see the note included in the evidence below – control+F “Update – July 10, 2012,” [[http://www.fema.gov/presidential-policy-directive-8-national-preparedness]].
FEMA has developed a set of Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) pertaining to the
AND
September 2011. For questions, please contact us at PPD8-Engagement.

====The __process__ of the plan is vital – it shapes __core budget decisions__ and //all// future federal assistance==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">FEMA, ’11</span> – “National Preparedness <span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>Goal,” First Edition<span style="font-size: 6pt;">¶ </span>September 2011, Department of Homeland Security, [[http://www.fema.gov/pdf/prepared/npg.pdf]].
The Goal is designed to prepare our Nation for the risks that will severely tax
AND
allow for annual adjustments based on updated priorities and our resource ¶ posture.

=<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt"><span style="font-size: 13pt;">ENERGY</span></span>= 

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Seaport security is vital to preventing attacks on key oil, nuclear and LNG terminals </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – NiyaziOnur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Most US energy power plants, critical bridges, and densely populated urban areas lay
AND
The US Coast Guard has a central role in confronting such seaborne threats.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">It’s __empirically proven__ that these forms of infrastructure are __highly-targeted__</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – NiyaziOnur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
3.2.2.1 Critical Coastal Targets. Maritime terrorism has hit
AND
security systems. These new regulations increased the transportation cost of ammonium nitrate.

====__Oil__ – Attacks destroy __refineries__ and __three billion tons__ of oil==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">CFR, ‘6</span> – Council on Foreign Relations, backgrounder. “Targets for Terrorism: Ports,” January, http://www.cfr.org/port-security/targets-terrorism-ports/p10215.
Could terrorists attack U.S. ports?¶ Yes. Experts warn that U
AND
-five Islamist extremists entered the United States by hiding in shipping containers.

====That __spikes__ prices __overnight__ – barriers are //easily//overcome==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">USA Today, ’11 </span>– “Oil tanker terror hijacks easy, attacks complex,” 5-21, http://www.usatoday.com/news/world/2011-05-21-terror-plot-oil-tankers_n.htm
The FBI and the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued a confidential
AND
pull off a terror attack on a supertanker, especially in Asian waters.

====Oil spikes produce __great power nuclear wars__ with a __high probability__ of escalation==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Qasem, ‘7</span> – Islam Yasin, Masters in IR from Columbia, “The Coming Warfare of Oil Shortage,” 7-9, http://www.opednews.com/articles/opedne_islam_ya_070709_the_coming_warfare_o.htm]
If the conflict-ridden and oil-rich Middle East today is crucial to
AND
before reaching the zenith of a disaster which is already in the making.

====__Meltdowns__ – nuclear plants are //extremely// vulnerable to __catastrophic__terrorattacks==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Rockwell, ’12</span> – Mark, “Study says nuclear plant designs need stepped-up attention to security,” Government Security Magazine, [[http://www.gsnmagazine.com/node/25600?c=infrastructure_protection]].
While protections for nuclear plants from possible terror attacks have improved dramatically since 9/
AND
environment. Zirconium is the material commonly used in cladding the fuel rods.

====Meltdowns cause __extinction__ – global contamination will be __uncontainable__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lendman, ‘11</span>.Stephen, “Nuclear Meltdown in Japan,” 3-13, [[http://www.thepeoplesvoice.org/TPV3/Voices.php/2011/03/13/nuclear-meltdown-in-japan]].
"As a physician, I contend that nuclear technology threatens life on our planet
AND
, Canada, Mexico, Central America, and parts of South America.

====__LNG__ – insufficient __funding__ makes liquid natural gas attacks __catastrophic__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Kaplan, ‘6</span> – CFR Security Analyst, “Liquefied Natural Gas: A Potential Terrorist Target?” Council on Foreign Relations, [[http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3|http://www.cfr.org/port-security/liquefied-natural-gas-potential-terrorist-target/p9810#p3]].
Are LNG ships and terminals potential terrorist targets?¶ Yes, because of LNG's explosive
AND
were designed primarily for safety patrols, not armed combat," he says.

====LNG explosions outweigh nuclearwar==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Lovin and Lovin, ‘1</span> – Amory B. Lovin, Chief Scientist of the Rocky Mountain Institute, and L. Hunter Lovin, President – National Capitalism and Co-Founder – Rocky Mountain Institute, “Brittle Power: Energy Strategy for National Security”, 2001, [[http://www.rmi.org%2Fcms%2Fdownload.aspx%3Fid%3D5084%26file%3Dbrittlepower3ptcombo.pdf%26title%3Dbrit/|**Error! Hyperlink reference not valid.**]]
About nine percent of such a tankerload of LNG will probably, if spilled onto
AND
of a megaton of TNT, or about fifty-five Hiroshima bombs.

=Trade= 

====A SINGLE attack on U.S. ports creates a GLOBAL EMBARGO on trade==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Flynn, ‘3</span> – Stephen, Ph.D.,Commander, U.S. Coast Guard (ret.)Senior Fellow in National Security Studies at CFR, , Prof @ Northeastern U, “The Fragile State of Container Security,” Written Testimony before a hearing of theU.S. Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, [[http://www.cfr.org/defensehomeland-security/fragile-state-container-security/p5730]].
A year later I joined with former senators Warren Rudman and Gary Hart in preparing
AND
—as would much of the freight movements that make up international trade.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Seaports are the __most important determinant__ofglobal free trade</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Bakir, ‘7</span> – NiyaziOnur, Postdoctoral Research Associate at University of Southern California Center for Homeland Security, “A Brief Analysis of Threats and Vulnerabilities in the Maritime Domain, Center for Risk and Economic Analysis of Terrorism Events (CREATE) Research Archive Non-published Research Reports, http://research.create.usc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1004&context=nonpublished_reports)
Seaports are arguably the most critical nodes in the global supply-chain and hence
AND
number should be between 50,000 and 1,000,000.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Trade drives __one-third__ of the global economy – ports are the //most//__valuable__ and __vulnerable__ targets</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Abt, ‘3</span> – Ph.D., Clark C., Risk analysis prepared for US DOT/RSPA/Volpe National Transportation. “The Economic Impact of Nuclear Terrorist Attacks on Freight Transport Systems in an Age of Seaport Vulnerability,” Apr 23, [[http://www.abtassociates.com/reports/es-economic_impact_of_nuclear_terrorist_attacks.pdf]].
Today a third of the world economy, and a quarter of America’s, depends
AND
pound nuclear weapon could be delivered to the seaport and detonated before unloading.

====Obama’s 2014 National Export Goal is on track now – failure wrecksgrowth==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Sánchez, ’12</span> – Francisco, Under Secretary for International Trade, “Understanding U.S. Trade Rules and Regulations,” Tradeology – the International Trade Association (ITA) blog under the U.S. Dept of Commerce, [[http://blog.trade.gov/category/import-administration/]].
This month marks the second anniversary of President Obama’s National Export Initiative (NEI).
AND
they comprised nearly 14 percent of GDP in 2011 — yet another record.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Growth prevents nuclear warfare – history proves </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mead 9</span> – Walter Russell Mead, the Henry A. Kissinger Senior Fellow in U.S. Foreign Policy at the Council on Foreign Relations, 2-4, “Only Makes You Stronger,” The New Republic, http://www.tnr.com/politics/story.html?id=571cbbb9-2887-4d81-8542-92e83915f5f8&p=2
If current market turmoil seriously damaged the performance and prospects of India and China,
AND
policy far more severely than any mistake made by George W. Bush.
It's not just the great powers whose trajectories have been affected by the crash.
AND
global economic downturn force the government to rein in its expansionary fiscal policy.
All this has weakened Ahmadinejad at home and Iran abroad. Iranian officials must balance
AND
negotiations with Iran (and Syria) from a position of enhanced strength.
Every crisis is different, but there seem to be reasons why, over time
AND
market economy within an appropriately liberal legal and political framework are relatively strong.
But, in many other countries where capitalism rubs people the wrong way, this
AND
are quick to decide that capitalism is a failure and look for alternatives.
So far, such half-hearted experiments not only have failed to work;
AND
the consequences of a financial crisis than more established firms in wealthier societies.
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">As a result, developing countries and </span>countries where capitalism has relatively recent and shallow roots tend to suffer greater economic and political damage when crisis strikes<span style="font-size: 8pt;">--as, inevitably, it does. And, consequently, financial crises often reinforce rather than challenge the global distribution of power and wealth. This may be happening yet again.</span>
None of which means that we can just sit back and enjoy the recession.
AND
list of wars is almost as long as the list of financial crises.
Bad economic times can //<span style="font-size: 11pt;">breed wars</span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. Europe was a pretty peaceful place in 1928, but the Depression poisoned German public opinion and helped bring Adolf Hitler to power. If the current crisis turns into a depression, what rough beasts might start slouching toward Moscow, Karachi, Beijing, or New Delhi to be born?</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The United States may not, yet, decline, but, </span>if we can't get the world economy back on track, we may still have to fight.

====Free trade creates __structural disincentives__ against war and it’s __reverse-causal__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Griswold, ‘11</span>– Daniel, Director of the Center for Trade Policy Studies at Cato.“Free Trade and the Global Middle Class,” Hayek Society Journal, v9, [[http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf%20/|http://www.cato.org/pubs/articles/Hayek-Society-Journal-Griswold.pdf ]]
Our more globalized world has also yielded a “peace dividend.” It may not
AND
and less likely those gains will be destroyed by civil conflict and war.


====U.S. trade prevents __several__ destabilizing scenarios for allied build-up in the South China Sea that wreck stability==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Glaser, ’12</span> – Senior Fellow, Center for Strategic and International Studies – Bonnie S., “Armed Clash in the South China Sea,” Council on Foreign Relations (CFR), April, [[http://www.cfr.org/east-asia/armed-clash-south-china-sea/p27883]].
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Alliance security and regional stability.</span><span style="font-size: 11pt;">U.S. allies and friends around the South China Sea </span>//<span style="font-size: 11pt;">look to the </span>//
United States to maintain free trade, safe and secure sea lines of communication (
AND
the claimants from benefiting from the South China's Sea's proven and potential riches.

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The risk ofwar on the South China Sea is high – maintaining U.S. trade influence is vital to the alliance system and preventing Asian warfare </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Hartcher, 7-21</span>-12 – Peter, US sees risk of war over South China Sea, Sydney Morning Herald, [[http://www.smh.com.au/opinion/political-news/us-sees-risk-of-war-over-south-china-sea-20120720-22flc.html]].
THE White House has warned of the rising risk of accidental war in the South
AND
and stability, it's the system that has allowed China to flourish.''

====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Defer Aff – more than 2 out of 3 of scholars say East Asian conflict outweighs</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Tierney et al, ‘9</span>. Michael J. Tierney, director of international relations and Weingartner associate professor of government, all at the College of William and Mary. Amy Oakes, an assistant professor of government, Susan Peterson, dean of undergraduate studies and professor of government, and Daniel Maliniak, a Ph.D. student at U.C. San Diego. “Inside the Ivory Tower,” Foreign Policy, March/April, [[http://www.foreignpolicy.com/story/cms.php?story_id=4685&print=1]].
Public Enemy No. 1 Political pundits and journalists may buzz reflexively over the latest
AND
reported it would be the region of greatest strategic importance in 20 years.

====South China Sea conflict goes nuclear==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Nikkei, ‘95</span> – [The Nikkei weekly, Developing Asian nations should be allowed a grace period to allow their economies to grow before being subjected to trade liberalization demands, says Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad, July 3, 1995, lexis]
Developing Asian nations should be allowed a grace period to allow their economies to grow
AND
.S., leading to full-scale, even nuclear, war.
=Other Stuff= 
====Ethical policymaking requires calculation of our impacts—refusing consequentialism allows atrocity in the name of ethical purity==== 
Nikolas <span style="font-size: 13pt;">Gvosdev 5</span> (Nikolas, Exec Editor of The National Interest, The Value(s) of Realism, SAIS Review 25.1, Muse)
As the name implies, realists focus on promoting policies that are achievable and sustainable
AND
—and the one that had also been roundly condemned on moral grounds.
====Ports are __uniquely__ federal because the //transportation role// is inherently cross-border==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB, ‘4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. “The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role,” Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].
The physical and use characteristics described above have inﬂuenced the¶ nature and scope of
AND
with funding¶ assistance and standards for design, equipage, and operations.


====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Your DA links are non-unique: New PSGP projects were just funded but overall funding is collapsing </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">PTI, 7-9-</span>12 – Port Technology International, “Port of Oakland awarded $3.5 million in security grants,” http://www.porttechnology.org/news/port_of_oakland_awarded_3.5_million_in_security_grants/
The Port of Oakland has been allocated more than US$3.5 million
AND
down from a total allocation in FY2009 of $388.6 million.
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Obama’s investing political capital in //limited// disbursement of PSGP funds now </span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Mayle, 7-20</span>-12 – Mary Carr, “GPA gets added security grant funds,” Savannah Now, [[http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ|http://savannahnow.com/exchange/2012-07-20/gpa-gets-added-security-grant-funds#.UCChA_ZmTnQ]].
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Georgia Ports Authority has been awarded nearly a half-million dollars in federal </span>
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">AND</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">certain South Carolina lawmakers and commission members off Georgia’s case? Stay tuned.</span>



====Federal __enforcement__ is key for to effective port infrastructure security __coordination__==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">TRB, ‘4</span> – TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH BOARDOF THE NATIONAL ACADEMIES. A group composing a major report over a span of months, composed of experts from The National Academies of Science and Engineering, The Institute of Medicine and the National Research Council. “The Marine Transportation System and the Federal Role,” Special Report 279, [[http://onlinepubs.trb.org/onlinepubs/sr/sr279.pdf]].
As the only U.S. military service with law enforcement authority, the
AND
and to the Coast Guard and other federal agencies charged with implementing them.