=CPs= 
==States== 
====The United States federal government should narrowly delegate authority over <insert mandates of plan> to the fifty state governments and appropriate territories. The fifty state governments and appropriate territories should substantially increase investment in <insert mandates of plan>, including dedicated shared fund agreements that collectively match the total of the affirmative allocations.==== 

====Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
The federal transportation program has lost its way: It is less and less about
AND
made whole, while donee states would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.

=Ks= 
===Cap K=== 
====<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Link: Federal infrastructure projects are tools of the global capitalist project – they create an imperial ideology that justifies the ruthless expansion of capital</span>==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Smith 8</span> (Jason Scott, assistant professor of history at the University of New Mexico, "The New Deal Order," Enterprise and Society Vol. 9 Num 3, Muse)

By using the lens of political economy to focus on the New Deal's public works
AND
to recognize the historical impact of the New Deal's public works projects.[[http://muse.jhu.edu.go.libproxy.wfubmc.edu/journals/enterprise_and_society/v009/9.3.smith.html#f14|14]]
====Implications: Prolonging the collapse of capitalism exacerbates every impact and ends in extinction- try or die==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Brown 5</span> (Charles, Professor of Economics and Research Scientist at the University of Michigan, May 13, http://archives.econ.utah.edu/archives/pen-l/2005w15/msg00062.htm)

The capitalist class owns the factories, the banks, and transportation-the means
AND
at large remains a shameful fact of life in the U.S.
====Alternative: The alternative is to reject the affirmative in order to abandon belief in capitalism==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Johnston 4</span> (Adrian, Ph.D., Assistant Professor of Philosophy, University of New Mexico, Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society, Volume 9/Issue 3)

Perhaps the absence of a detailed practical roadmap in Žižek’s political writings isn’t a major
AND
belief in others’ belief in the socioperformative force emanating from this same material.

=Politics/Elections= 
==Elections- Obama Good== 
===Elections- Obama Good=== 
====Obama winning now- ahead in key swing states but momentum could shift- Romney needs to stop Dem turnout==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ABC News, 9-22</span>-2012 [[http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/tide-shifting-obama-battleground-states-17297667#.UF2tFlEaF84|http://abcnews.go.com/US/wireStory/tide-shifting-obama-battleground-states-17297667#.UF2tFlEaF84]]

In a presidential race seemingly frozen in place for months, the advantage has
AND
he can.¶ GOP officials say it's too early to count Romney out.
====Romney’s PF debate skills have been ridiculed and aren’t enough for him to win==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Yahoo News 10/4/12 </span>Olivier Knox http://news.yahoo.com/blogs/ticket/obama-mocks-romney-getting-tough-big-bird-165202158--election.htmlhttp://news.yahoo.com/blogs/ticket/obama-mocks-romney-getting-tough-big-bird-165202158--election.html
President Barack Obama, stung by bad reviews in his first debate of the 2012
AND
up for the gap" in battleground states that will decide the election.

====Fact checks mean the presidential debate only hurts Romney’s image==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">NPR 10/4/12 </span> <span style="color: black; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">[[http://www.npr.org/people/104192887/mark-memmott|MARK MEMMOTT]]</span> <span style="background-color: #e5e5e5; font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 7.5pt;">and SCOTT MONTGOMERY http://www.npr.org/blogs/itsallpolitics/2012/10/03/162263539/romney-goes-on-offense-pays-for-it-in-first-wave-of-fact-checks?ft=1&f=1001&sc=tw&utm_source=twitterfeed&utm_medium=twitter</span>
Here is a sample of what's being reported about the truthiness of what Obama and
AND
on middle class families by up to $2,000 a year."

====Romney under attack for contradictions==== 
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Huffington Post 10/4/12 </span>Julie Pace http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/10/04/presidential-debate-obama-_n_1939852.html
Looking for a quick recovery from a disappointing debate, President Barack Obama questioned the
AND
, Florida, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio and Virginia.
====Romney’s threats to destroy big bird and other popular institutions alienate large voting blocks, including moms==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Washington Post 10/4/12 </span>Suzi Parker http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/she-the-people/wp/2012/10/04/big-bird-will-haunt-mitt-romney/?wprss=rss_politics
Poor Big Bird.¶ The last thing he probably wanted was a mention in the
AND
may have shined on Wednesday night, but Big Bird will haunt him.





====Funding Transportation infrastructure unpopular with the public – they __fear wasteful planning__ and __don’t see the upside__.==== 
**Orski ‘12**
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Ken Orski is editor and publisher of Innovation NewsBriefs, an influential and widely read transportation newsletter, now in its 20th year of publication. Orski has worked professionally in the field of transportation for close to 40 years. He served as Associate Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration under President Nixon and President Ford. He is a magna cum laude graduate of Harvard College and holds a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School. NewGeography – 02/05/2012 – http://www.newgeography.com/content/002662-why-pleas-increase-infrastructure-funding-fall-deaf-ears</span>

Finding the resources to keep transportation infrastructure in good order is a more difficult challenge
AND
down, and collapsing bridges, happily, are few and far between.

====GOP win causes Iran strikes==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Dilek 9-20</span>-11 (Emine, addicting info, “All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran” http://www.addictinginfo.org/2011/09/20/all-republican-candidates-favor-war-with-iran/, jj)

All Republican Candidates Favor War with Iran Prepare yourself my fellow Americans. If you
AND
his assertion, I believe Americans are fed up with the unending wars.

====Iran strikes causes multiple scenarios for extinction.==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Chossudovsky -06</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (Michel Chossudovsky, The Next Phase of the Middle East War, Global Research, http://www.globalresearch.ca/index.php?context=va&aid=3147)</span>
The Bush Administration has embarked upon a military adventure which threatens the future of humanity
AND
basin, eventually leading to the destabilization and conquest of the Russian Federation.

====Romney’s policies on health insurance are conflicting at best; denies help to people with preexisting conditions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">ABC News 9/10/12 </span>http://abcnews.go.com/blogs/politics/2012/09/fact-check-mitt-romney-on-obamacare-and-pre-existing-conditions/
Mitt Romney said Sunday he doesn’t want to get rid of all of “Obamacare
AND
and then if you get ill, you are going to be covered.

====Romney would deny coverage to those with preexisting conditions==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">[[http://talkingpointsmemo.com/brian_beutler.php|BRIAN BEUTLER]]</span><span style="font-size: 13pt;"> 10/3/12 </span>Talking Points Memo Brian Beutler is the senior congressional reporter for TPM and led coverage of health care reform, Wall Street reform, taxes, the GOP budget, the government shutdown fight and the debt limit fight. http://talkingpointsmemo.com/brian_beutler.php
<span style="font-size: 11pt;">After the first presidential debate at the University of Denver in Colorado on Wednesday night, one of Mitt Romney’s top advisers acknowledged that, as a result Romney’s plan to repeal Obamacare, people with pre-existing medical conditions would likely be unable to purchase insurance.</span>

====Denial of health care and marginalization kill econ==== 
<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Keith Griffin 2000</span> “Problems of Poverty and Marginalization” Keith Griffin, economist and professor and University of Massachusetts Amherst
Human capital, however, is even more important than natural and physical capital.
AND
and it increases the ¶ amount children learn while they are in school.