== == 
=Round One vs. New Trier CM--Icebreakers= 
[[toc]]
==Fiscal Cliff DA== 
Obama can get a deal now – but political capital is key
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hirsch 11-19</span> (Larry Hirsch is the Former President of Community Free Democrats and was the State Committeeman for the 69th Assembly District in New York. “The Fiscal Cliff: Obama's Opportunity for Leadership.” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/larry-hirsch/the-fiscal-cliff_b_2120019.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">President </span>Obama's re-election provides him a great .....<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> that they will see the light and get off their hard line to pass a budget deal that is fair for all Americans.</span>

GOP doesn’t want to spend on icebreakers
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ahlers 11 </span>(Mike Ahlers, reporter, Polar icebreaker dispute ties up Coast Guard appropriations, 11/3/11, )</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">With the nation's only two heavy-duty polar i.....</span> in just three years, saying that keeping the 35-year-old ship afloat is "throwing good money after bad."

Sequestration destroys US global military power---triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war (Iranian adventurism, Hormuz closing, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, Russian military modernization, Afghanistan instability, naval power)
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunter 9/30</span> Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Over the next 10 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because of </span>sequestration<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, the Pentagon will be forced to absorb $500 billion in budget cuts that </span>will strike at the heart of America’s military<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.</span><span style="font-size: 6.66667px;"> Making this even more dangerous is the fact that the legislation.....</span> stand ready to defend<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> our interests </span>against any threat.


It leads to short term global collapse of the economy
**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">Means 10/25/</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif';">12 Businessman, Former assistant to Vice President Nelson Rockefeller, Former economist at the U.S. Department of Health, Education & Welfare (Grady, “US economy on schedule to crash March 2014.” The Washington Times, [[http://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2012/oct/25/us-economy-on-schedule-to-crash-march-2014/]])</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Arial','sans-serif'; font-size: 9.33333px;">Those wild and crazy Mayans put down their marker that the end ..... to buy our own bonds in order to goose economic and employment numbers, means we are floating our own debt, a good formula for sudden hyperinflation.</span>
==Consult Russia CP== 

**<span style="font-size: 17.3333px;">The United States federal government will engage in prior binding consultation with the Russia Federation over substantially increasing icebreaking operations for the creation of United States' waterways. The United States will advocate substantially increasing icebreaking operations for the creation of United States' waterways during the consultative process and will adopt the result of the consultation. </span>**


a. Resolved’ means the plan has to be certain to pass
Kernerman Dictionary 6<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> - Kernerman English Multilingual Dictionary, 2006, “Resolve,” online: http://www.thefreedictionary.com/resolution</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">1 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">to make a firm decision</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;"> (to do something) I've resolved to stop smoking. </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">2 </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">to pass (a resolution</span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif'; font-size: 10.6667px;">) </span><span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman','serif';">It was resolved that women should be allowed to join the society.</span>

b. “Should” means “must” and requires __immediate__ __legal__ __effect__
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Summers 94</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Justice – Oklahoma Supreme Court, “Kelsey v. Dollarsaver Food Warehouse of Durant”, 1994 OK 123, 11-8, http://www.osn.net/applications/oscn/DeliverDocument.asp?CiteID=20287#marker3fn13)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">¶4 </span>The legal question to be resolved by the .....<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">something that will or would become effective</span><span style="font-size: 14.6667px;"> //in the future//</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> [in futurol</span>//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">]. See Van Wyck v. Knevals, [[http://www.oscn.net/applications/oscn/deliverdocument.asp?box1=106&box2=U.S.&box3=360|106 U.S. 360]], 365, 1 S.Ct. 336, 337, 27 L.Ed. 201 (1882).</span>

Russia says yes to expansion of Arctic infrastructure, but consultation is key
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">The Guardian 2010 </span>
“Vladimir Putin calls for Arctic claims to be resolved under UN law,” http://www.guardian.co.uk/world/2010/sep/23/putin-arctic-claims-international-law]

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Russia's prime minister, </span><span style="color: #084376; font-size: 10.6667px;">Vladimir </span>__<span style="color: #084376;">Putin</span>, has dismissed .....__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Alexander Pelyasov, director of Russia's centre of the North and Arctic Economy.</span>

Unilateral action in the arctic pushes relations over the brink
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hart et al 12</span>
Andrew Hart, Bruce Jones and David Steven, Managing Global Order<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>May 2012, [[http://www.cic.nyu.edu/mgo/docs/jones_arctic.pdf]], Andrew Hart is a doctoral candidate at the University of Colorado.<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Bruce Jones is Senior Fellow and Director of the Managing Global Order<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Initiative (MGO) at Brookings and New York University’s Center on International<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>Cooperation (NYU/CIC).<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>David Steven is a Senior Fellow at NYU/CIC and leads MGO’s Geopolitics<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>of Scarcity Project.)
As the Cold War receded, so too did the ..... and even elements of a model, for<span style="font-size: 8px;">¶ </span>tackling evolving challenges in other regions.

Relations key to solving nuclear war and terrorism
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">NTI 9 </span>
Global Security Newswire, “Russia Open to U.S. Suggestions on Improving Relations, Curbing Iran” http://www.globalsecuritynewswire.org/gsn/nw_20090318_4374.php 3/19
**__Russian leaders have shown__****__an interest in improving relations__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">..... nuclear issue solely through sanctions, and Russia's cooperation could contribute substantially to a successful outcome," the report adds (Nixon Center release, March 16).</span>

==T--IceBreakers== 
The affirmative is not topical – they increase investment in icebreakers which are vehicles – that’s distinct from transportation infrastructure
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">CFST 06</span> – Campaign for Sensible Transportation, collection of organizations for better transportation in the Santa Cruz area (“Aboard Transportation”, 2006, http://www.cfst.org/transportation.html)//RD//
//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Transportation or transport is the carrying of people and goods from one destination to another. The term comes from the Latin trans meaning “across” and </span>//portare //meaning “to carry”. Transportation can be divided into<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> three </span>distinct fields<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">1. </span>Infrastructure<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> - </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">When we </span>refer to<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> infrastructure it includes </span>our transport networks<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> such as roads, railways, airways, canals, and pipeline</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">. This also includes the terminals or nodes such as airports, railway stations, bus stations, and seaports. </span>//
//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">2. </span>Vehicle<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> – These </span>comprises<span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> of the </span>vehicles that we regularly ride//in the networks//<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">for instance automobiles (buses, cars, taxis, and etc.), trains and airplanes. </span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">3. Operations – They are the control of the whole transport system including traffic lights/signals on roads, ramp meters, railroad switches, air traffic control, and etc.</span>

“In” means within the limits of
<span style="font-size: 14.6667px;">Webster’s 6</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">[Merriam Webster Online Dictionary, 06 ([[http://www.m-w.com/cgi-bin/dictionary?book=Dictionary&va=in]]]</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Main Entry: 1in Pronunciation: 'in, &n, &n Function: preposition Etymology: Middle English, from Old English; akin to Old High German in in, Latin in, Greek en 1 a -- </span>used<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> as a function word </span>to indicate inclusion, location, or position within limits<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> <in the lake> <wounded in the leg> <in the summer></span>


The waterways they create are outside the current extent of the United States—at best it’s unclaimed territory
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Cohen et al 8</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (Ariel, Senior Research Fellow for Russian and Eurasian Studies @ Heritage, PhD @ Tufts U, “The New Cold War: Reviving the U.S. Presence in the Arctic”, [[http://s3.amazonaws.com/thf_media/2008/pdf/bg2202.pdf]].)</span>

<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Reestablishing the U.S. Arctic Presence. The United ..... Arctic nations through venues such as the recent Arctic Ocean Conference in Ilulissat, Greenland</span>

And “United States” excludes territories
**Siksi 11**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> Markku Suksi, Professor (Department of Law) National Director of the EMA Programme “Sub-State Governance Through Territorial Autonomy: A Comparative Study in Constitutional Law of Powers, Procedures and Institutions” Google books [[http://books.google.com/books?id=d7UUkiwi_9cC&pg=PA173&lpg=PA173&dq=%22the+united+states+excludes+territories%22&source=bl&ots=HugdwNR3e7&sig=e09lLC4W8Fxe_1bL0oCA1E4bleg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=r-rhT8f3BIj69QS_y7mGCA&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q&f=false|http://books.google.com/books?id=d7UUkiwi_9cC&pg=PA173&lpg=PA173&dq=%22the+united+states+excludes+territories%22&source=bl&ots=HugdwNR3e7&sig=e09lLC4W8Fxe_1bL0oCA1E4bleg&hl=en&sa=X&ei=r-rhT8f3BIj69QS_y7mGCA&ved=0CC0Q6AEwAQ#v=onepage&q&f=false]] BK</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The interpretation soon emerged that Puerto Rico would be governed u__.....__</span> __beginning of the US - Puerto Rico relationship__<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> when the Organic Act of Puerto Rico, or the so called Foraker Act was enacted in 1900.</span>




==CP== 

**Text: The Chair of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States should issue a National Military Strategy and Joint Strategic Capabilities Plan that prioritizes substantially increasing icebreaking operations for the creation of United States' waterways** **as necessary to achieve the national security goals of the United States.**
The counterplan shapes policy
<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Meinhart, 8</span> — Professor of Defense and Joint Processes at the U.S. Army War College (Dr. Richard M., “National Military Strategies: 1990 to 2007”, National Security Policy and Strategy, Ed. Bartholomees, June 2008, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTR Doc?AD=ADA482688&Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">To meet these challenges, the military strategy again built **__.....__**</span> **__that is so important in today’s volatile, uncertain, complex and ambiguous global security environment__****.**

NMS causes the plan to be enacted as __a result__ of the CP
<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Riley, 94</span> — Lieutenant Colonel in the United States Army (Don T., “A National Military Strategy Process for the Future”, U.S. Army War College Study Project, 4/18/1994, http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetTRDoc?Location=U2&doc=GetTRDoc.pdf&AD=ADA279 522)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Should not </span>**__the__ __N__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ational </span>**__M__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">ilitary </span>**__S__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">trategy </span>**__p.....__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> programming for the military 20 years from now begins today.</span>

The net benefit is CMR
<span style="font-size: 29.3333px;">Ackerman, 8</span> — Senior Correspondent at American Prospect and Former Associate Editor at New Republic (Spencer, “Productive Obama-Military Relationship Possible”, Washington Independent, 11/13/2008, http://washingtonindependent.com/18335/productive-obama-military-relationship-possible)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The meeting offered a test for a relationship that might ..... That’s not something you want to do in a time of war, which most of the nation has forgotten.” </span>

Lack of CMR means extinction and turns case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Ricks 6/15</span> (THOMAS E. RICKS, member of Harvard University's Senior Advisory Council on the Project on U.S. Civil-Military Relations, Center for a New American Security, Pulitzer Prize winning former reporter for the Wall Street Journal and Washington Post, Foreign Policy Mag, 6/5,2012, “Covert Wars, Waged Virally”, [[http://www.nytimes.com/2012/06/06/books/confront-and-conceal-by-david-sanger.htm]]l)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Mr. Sanger’s sure touch in discussing foreign .....</span> on the brink and the Afghan war dragging on, //that is not a reassuring state of affairs//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span>


=Round Three vs. Berkeley Prep DX--NIB= 

Will pass – congressional confidence, Republicans budging on revenue increases, stock market indicators
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">AFP 11-20</span> (“US confident over fiscal cliff.” http://business.iafrica.com/worldnews/828342.html)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">President Barack Obama quipped in Thailand at the weekend that a ..... families making more than $250 000 per year. The framework of a deal is uncertain, but the basics are starting to take shape, lawmakers and aides say.</span>


The plan causes congressional backlash
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Schulz 10</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">, Contributing Editor -- Logistics Management (John D., “Transportation infrastructure: Is a U.S. Infrastructure Bank an idea whose time has come?”. April 2. [[http://www.logisticsmgmt.com/article/455228-Transportation_infrastructure_Is_a_U_S_Infrastructure_Bank_an_idea_whose_time_has_come_.php]])</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">"The needs are great, and getting greater-and </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">more funding is .....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> "It is now time for a collaborative effort. We should look at a comprehensive set of solutions."</span>


Obama must use capital to secure a fiscal cliff solution – otherwise the cliff causes a global depression
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sullivan, 11/9</span>
(The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I'm as amazed as everyone else by the results on Tuesday night, .....and growth again. </span>**__But the president needs to be bold;__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and magnanimous. </span>**__And fast.__**


Sequestration destroys US global military power---triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war(Iranian adventurism, Hormuz closing, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, Russian military modernization, Afghanistan instability, naval power)
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunter 9/30</span> Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Over the next 10 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because of sequestration, the Pentagon ..... ready to defend our interests against any threat.</span>

==T== 

Interpretation—increase means a __net__ increase
**<span style="color: #000000;">Words and Phrases, 5 </span>**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 8px;">(Cummulative Supplementary Pamphlet, v. 20a, p.295, KONTOPOULOS)</span>
<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">Cal.App.2 Dist. 1991.</span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">Term “increase</span>__**<span style="color: #000000; font-size: 10.6667px;">,” as used in statute giving the Energy Commission modification jurisdiction over any alteration, replacement, or improvement of equipment that results in “increase” of 50 megawatts or more in electric generating capacity of existing thermal power plant, </span>**__<span style="color: #000000;">refers to “net increase”</span>__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> in power plant’s total generating capacity; in deciding whether there has been the requisite 50-megawatt increase as a result of new units being incorporated into a plant, Energy Commission cannot ignore decreases in capacity caused by retirement or deactivation of other units at plant. West’s Ann.Cal.Pub.Res.Code § 25123.</span>

Violation—an infrastructure bank won’t __net__ increase total transportation investment
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Lamberton, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> (9/7/2011, Giles, “Feds Weigh Infrastructure Financial Solutions,” [[http://www.constructionequipmentguide.com/Feds-Weigh-Infrastructure-Financial-Solutions/16865/]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The proposals are more alike than they are different, **__.....__**</span> **__go through the existing highway and transit programs.”__**

==**Security K**== 

A focus on economic vulnerability and uncertainty reproduces a paradigm for total war- turns case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Collier and Lakoff</span> 9 (Stephen J. Collier, Graduate Program in International Affairs at the New School.Andrew Lakoff, Department of Sociology at University of California.Published February 2009. “On Vital Systems Security.” [[http://www.gpia.info/files/u16/Collier_and_Lakoff_2009-01.pdf]])
<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The genealogy of vital systems security can .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> as a key instrument of </span>//war and thus as¶ target of attack//<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">– was developed in the theory of strategic bombing.</span></span>


Reject the affirmative—Only rejection the logic of security allows us to be emancipated from this ideology and develop a better politics. We don’t need to reform or replace security, only to return the gift of the state and deny its biopolitics.
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Neocleous 8</span> (Mark Neocleous, professor of critique of political economy at Brunei University. “Critique of Security” pages 185-186)

<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The only way out of such a dilemma, to escape ..... but bracketing it out and handing it to the state; it requires us to be brave enough to return the gift</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">.143 </span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>



==CP== 
Text:The 50 states and all relevant territories should establish and fund infrastructure banks. These banks should—
--cover a broad a range of projects to address the needs of communities
--include enabling legislation that specifies the decision-making body and process for the state infrastructure ban and make public input must be part of the project selection process
--give environmental and job standards serious consideration in funding decisions
--blend financing from a variety of sources so that no one population carries a disproportionate burden and include provisions that make taxes or fees progressive and ensure good projects are funded in a variety of communities.


The counterplan ensures __effective__ state infrastructure banks
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Christman& Riordan, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- policy analysts at the National Employment Law Project (December 2011, Anastasia Christman and Christine Riordan, National Employment Law Project Briefing Paper, “State Infrastructure Banks: Old Idea Yields New Opportunities for Job Creation,” [[http://nelp.3cdn.net/fadb21502631e6cb79_vom6b8ccu.pdf]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Creating SIBs That Work</span>
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">In the current budget climate, pushing for </span>**__.....__** **__fees progressive and that ensure good projects are funded in a variety of communities.__**

States can cooperate with the private sector to fund infrastructure --- __federal__ requirements drive up costs and cause delays
<span style="font-size: 16px;">Furchtgott-Roth, 11</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> --- senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute (5/26/2011, Diana, “Let's Leave Our Roads to the States,” [[http://www.realclearmarkets.com/articles/2011/05/26/lets_leave_our_roads_to_the_states_99043.html]], JMP)</span>
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Mr. Kerry envisages the infrastructure bank as independent, ..... and solve their own transportation problems. This Memorial Day, as we sit in traffic jams, the choice is clear.</span>

==Oil DA== 
Oil Prices are high and on the rise
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Washington Post 9/14</span> (“Oil prices hit four-month high”, [[http://www.washingtonpost.com/business/economy/oil-prices-hit-four-month-high/2012/09/14/b09829ca-fe9f-11e1-b153-218509a954e1_story.html]], 9/14/12)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Oil prices hit their highest levels in .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">. But in the outside world, “</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">the market is tight as a drum</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.”</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>

NIB cuts oil consumption
**Lehner 10**– Executive Director of the Natural Resources Defense Council (Peter, “Battling Our Oil Dependence Once and For All: A Blueprint” Bello Velo, June 20th, [[http://bellovelo.blogspot.com/2010/06/battling-our-oil-dependence-once-and.html]])
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">Our blueprint, the </span>__Route to Reform, prioritizes .....__<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> scale of the challenge. This means focusing on reforming our outdated, wasteful transportation law. </span>

Russia’s economy RELIES on these prices
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">GM 9/15</span> (Globe and Mail news service, “For Russia, high energy prices a necessity, not a luxury”, [[http://m.theglobeandmail.com/report-on-business/international-business/european-business/for-russia-high-energy-prices-a-necessity-not-a-luxury/article4546314/?service=mobile]], 9/15/12)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">The Kremlin does not take political dissent with ..... Citibank has calculated that </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">every $10 decline in the price of oil reduces the Russian government’s revenues by </span>//$20-billion//<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">.</span><span style="font-size: 8px;">¶</span>

Russian economic collapse causes nuclear war and terrorism
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Filger 9 </span>[Sheldon Filger, columnist and founder of GlobalEconomicCrisis.com, May 10, 2009, “Russian Economy Faces Disastrous Free Fall Contraction,” http://www.huffingtonpost.com/sheldon-filger/russian-economy-faces-dis_b_201147.html]
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">In Russia</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">, historically</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">, </span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">economic health and political .....</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline"> impact of the Global Economic Crisis is its least dangerous consequence.</span>

=<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Round Five vs. Whitney Young DV--Inland Waterways</span>= 

==Fiscal Cliff DA== 
Obama has the upper hand now – negotiations over the cliff are coming
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">TJN 11/19</span> (The Journal News, “Editorial: Compromise to avert 'fiscal cliff' disaster”, [[http://www.lohud.com/article/20121119/OPINION/311180021/Editorial-Compromise-avert-fiscal-cliff-disaster?odyssey=nav%7Chead]], 11/19/12)
<span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">There apparently is nothing like a good metaphor, ..... While voters picked Obama, nothing compels his will. Moreover, the rich did not lose friends or sympathy.</span>

Inland waterways are partisan—spending
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Glass 11</span>
Pamela Glass, Washington Watch, “Inland waterways funding: Tax increases or user fees?”, September 22, 2011 http://www.workboat.com/blogpost.aspx?id=11232
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">Just before Christmas, the inland waterways .... with a murky future for the reform of inland infrastructure funding. There is still a lot of work to be done.</span>

Obama must use capital to secure a fiscal cliff solution—key to avoid global depression
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Sullivan, 11/9</span>
(The Daily Dish, “Now, Govern,” http://andrewsullivan.thedailybeast.com/2012/11/now-govern.html)
<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;">I'm as amazed as everyone else by the results on ...... </span>**__But the president needs to be bold;__**<span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> and magnanimous. </span>**__And fast.__**

Sequestration destroys US global military power---triggers multiple scenarios for nuclear war(Iranian adventurism, Hormuz closing, African instability, terrorism, Korean war, Taiwan war, Russian military modernization, Afghanistan instability, naval power)
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Hunter 9/30</span> Duncan is a U.S. Representative from Alaska. “SEQUESTRATION SENDS WRONG MESSAGE TO U.S. FRIENDS AND FOES ALIKE,” 2012, http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2012/sep/30/tp-sequestration-sends-wrong-message-to-us/?page=1#article
<span style="font-size: 6.66667px;">Over the next 10 years, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">because of sequestration, ..... a move that would signal to our friends and enemies alike that we uphold our promises and stand ready to defend our interests against any threat.</span>

==States CP== 
**Text –**

**The United States federal government should:**

**-- devolve all control over the Marine Transportation System to state and local governments, including returning any current federal funding spent on port security to the states.**

**-- eliminate any barriers to greater private sector investment in the Marine Transportation System**

**--grant states permission to transfer ownership of the Marine Transportation System to the private sector.**


Previous precedent proves the counterplan is feasible
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Stern 12</span> (Congressional Research Service, Anaylst in Natural Resources Policy, April 12, “Inland waterways: recent proposals and issues for congress”, <span style="color: #0000ff;">[[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/misc/R41430.pdf]]</span>, pg. 1)
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Through the early 1800s, inland .....</span><span style="font-size: 10.6667px;"> nation’s transportation mix for many bulk commodities. </span>

Devolution to the states solves- creates efficient labs of innovation which solves the case
<span class="StyleStyleBold12pt">Utt 2012</span> (Ronald, is Herbert and Joyce Morgan Senior Research Fellow in the Thomas A. Roe Institute for Economic Policy Studies at The Heritage Foundation. Utt is a veteran of budgetary politics in Washington, having served as director of the housing finance division at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and senior economist at the Office of Management and Budget, Past director of economic research at the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts. Associate chief economist of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “Turn Back” Transportation to the States” Feb 7th http://www.heritage.org/research/reports/2012/02/turn-back-transportation-to-the-states) AS
<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">The federal transportation program has lost its way</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;">: </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline">.....</span><span style="font-size: 9.33333px;"> while donee states would no longer benefit from undeserved subsidies.</span>

==T--Remodeling== 
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">A. Interpretation - Infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset, but not for minor remodeling</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">DOE, 10</span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> – US department of Education (“Clarifying Guidance on American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 Section 1512 Quarterly Reporting”, American Recovery and reinvestment Act, www2.ed.gov/policy/gen/.../guidance-1512-quarterly-reporting.doc)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">For the purposes of Section 1512 reporting, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">the Department has defined an infrastructure investment asfollows. ‘An infrastructure investment is financial support for a physical asset or structure needed for the operation of a larger enterprise</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">. Therefore, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">infrastructure investments include support for tangible assets or structures such as roads</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, public buildings (including schools), </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">mass transit systems,</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';"> water and sewage systems</span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, communication and utility systems and other assets or structures that provide a reliable flow of products and services essential to the defense and economic security of the United States</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, the smooth functioning of government at all levels, and society as a whole.’ However, //<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">an infrastructure investment does not include “minor remodeling</span>//” as defined in 34 C.F.R. § 77.1(c). </span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">And Infrastructure investment is distinct from maintenance</span>
**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Lemer 11 </span>**<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">- worked at The National Academies and studied at Harvard University (Andrew, “[[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%e2%80%9cenough%e2%80%9d/|How Much Infrastructure Spending Is “Enough?’”]], [[http://www.andrewlemer.com/2011/02/26/how-much-infrastructure-spending-is-%E2%80%9Cenough%E2%80%9D/]])</span>

<span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">What has been neglected in all of the analyses that I have seen </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">is an explicit consideration of maintenance spending, as distinct from investment</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">Infrastructure</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">, like most engineered systems, </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">requires periodic care to keep it functioning properly</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">. Leaves, trash and other debris clog drains that channel rainwater away from roadways must be cleaned out. Filters that remove silt and bacteria from drinking water must be flushed. </span><span class="StyleBoldUnderline" style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">The costs of such maintenance effort typically are accrued in different accounts from those the represent “investment</span><span style="font-family: 'Calibri','sans-serif';">.” But if maintenance is neglected, the quality of services and longevity of facilities will be impaired. My discussions with people who manage maintenance in public works agencies suggest that maintenance budgets are often squeezed, forcing neglect. </span>

==<span class="StyleBoldUnderline">Security K (Round Three)</span>==