**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">The Maintenance, Planning, And Design Of Transportation Networks Are Distinctly Securitizing Acts</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Lundborg et. al. 10</span>** (Tom Lundborg, The Swedish Institute of International Affairs, Nick Vaughan-Williams, University of Warwick, “There’s More to Life than Biopolitics: Critical Infrastructure, Resilience Planning, and Molecular Security,” Paper prepared for the SGIR Conference, Stockholm, 7-10 September, 2010)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">While the terrain of security studies is of course fiercely contested... </span>of physical and cyber networks—<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">takes place.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Discourses of security necessarily invoke their opposite—the logic of violence proposes a perpetual counter-violence and insecurity which makes their impacts a self-fulfilling prophecy. </span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Chernus</span>**, PROFESSOR OF RELIGIOUS STUDIES UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO AT BOULDER, **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">2K1</span>** Ira, Israel and the United States: Fighting Terror in the National Insecurity State, http://spot.colorado.edu/~chernus/SinceSeptember11.htm
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 8pt;">In this sense, too, the U.S. ... </span><span style="font-size: 9pt;">a trap that seems to offer no way out</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> </span>
**<span style="font-family: Arial,Helvetica,sans-serif; font-size: 11pt;">Some Threats May Exist, But The Fundamental Question Is How We Arrive To The Conclusion – The Idea That We Can Diagnose And Solve All Threats Is Fundamentally Flawed And Leads To Overhyping Impacts</span>**
Ronnie D. **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Lipschutz</span>**, Associate Prof at UC-Santa Cruz, “The Insecurity Dilemma,” AFTER AUTHORITY, State University of New York Press: Albany, **<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">2k</span>**, page 50.
<span style="font-size: 9.5pt;">None of this means that threats do not exist... inter­pretation of their various dimensions of dangerousness.</span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">Security Discourse Isolates And Exterminates The Essence Of Otherness And Becoming – Our Ontology And Value To Life Are Entirely Dependent On How We Encounter “Threats”</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Dillon 96</span>** (michael, senior lecturer in politics and international relations at the university of lancaster, the politics of security)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">In as much as we think the political... intended radically to exceed those limits. <P 4-6></span>

**<span style="font-size: 11pt;">The Alternative Is To Reject The Affirmative’s Participation In Traditional Analysis – Only A Radical Reimagining Of The Networks Of Violence And Otherness Can Hope To Solve</span>**
**<span style="color: windowtext; font-size: 11pt;">Milojević 1</span>** professor at The University of Queensland Australia, Dr. Milojević is a member of the Executive Board of the World Futures Studies Federation, a Research Associate at the Australian Center for Peace and Conflict Studies. (Ivana, __Gender, Peace and Terrestrial Futures: Alternatives to Terrorism and War__ http://www.metafuture.org/articlesbycolleagues/IvanaMilojevic/Ivana_Milojevic_-_Gender_peace_and_terrestrial_futures.htm accessed 8-3-06)
<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">Social </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">and economic </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;">strategies require radical transformation... </span><span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 10pt;">global peace and global security.</span>

<span style="font-family: Arial,sans-serif; font-size: 9pt;"> </span>