[[toc]]
=**Topicality- Commercial**= 
==**1NC**== 
**Exploration is space science and development is the creation of commercial market activities**
**Hsu and Cox, 9 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">*Senior fellow, Aerospace Technology Working Group, AND **Founder & Director of the Aerospace Technology Working Group (Feng and Ken, “Sustainable Space Exploration and Space Development - A Unified Strategic Vision,” 2/20, http://www.spaceref.com/news/viewsr.html?pid=30702)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Particularly, NASA needs reforms on … in solely by taxpayer contributions.</span>

=**Topicality- Substantial**= 
==**1NC**== 

**Substantially should be defined by context**
**Devinsky 02** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Paul, IP UPDATE, VOLUME 5, NO. 11, NOVEMBER 2002, “Is Claim "Substantially" Definite? Ask Person of Skill in the Art”, http://www.mwe.com/index.cfm/fuseaction/publications.nldetail/object_id/c2c73bdb-9b1a-42bf-a2b7-075812dc0e2d.cfm)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">In reversing a summary judgment of … , upon reading the patent documents."</span>


<span class="Underline">**A substantial increase for space is at least 2.6 billion**</span>
<span class="Underline">**Alexander 08** </span><span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Amir, writer for the Planetary Society, “President signs NASA Authorization Deal,” October 16, 2008 from http://www.planetary.org/programs/projects/space_advocacy/20081016.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">On Wednesday, October 15, 2008, President Bush … guidelines and indicates Congress's priorities.</span>

=**Topicality- Staffed Presence**= 
==**1NC**== 
**Exploration means to expand staffed presence to space**
**Logsdon, 9 –** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">professor of political science at George Washington, former director of the Space Policy Institute (John, “Fifty Years of Human Spaceflight </span>//<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Why Is There Still a Controversy?,” </span>// <span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://ntrs.nasa.gov/archive/nasa/casi.ntrs.nasa.gov/20100025875_2010028362.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Exploration as a Compelling Rationale</span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Many believe that the only … of the several “secondary objectives.”</span>

**Development requires staffed projects in space - this is distinct from tech**
**Livingston 07** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– Ph.D, thesis of Outer Space Comerce (Dr. David, http://www.thespaceshow.com/guest.asp?q=298, September 10th 2007)</span>

<span class="Underline">Eric Westling is a</span><span style="font-size: 8pt;"> science writer</span><span class="Underline">, … </span>//manned commercial projects// <span class="Underline">in space.</span>
==<span class="Underline">2NC</span>== 
===AT: Counter-Interpretation=== 
**Risk of a limits DA outweighs – DEBATE WILL DIE, PEOPLE WILL QUIT BEFORE THEY START**
**Rowland, 84**<span style="font-size: 8pt;">— Chairman of National Debate Tournament Committee and Chairman for Topic Committee for National Debate (Robert C. Rowland, Baylor U., “Topic Selection in Debate”, American Forensics in Perspective. Ed. Parson, p. 53-4)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The first major problem ... their programs.</span>
=**Topicality- Pre-existing**= 
==**1NC**== 
**Interpretation – Increase requires making an already existing thing greater**
**Buckley et al, 06 -** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">attorney (Jeremiah, Amicus Curiae Brief, Safeco Ins. Co. of America et al v. Charles Burr et al, </span>
<span style="font-size: 8pt;">http://supreme.lp.findlaw.com/supreme_court/briefs/06-84/06-84.mer.ami.mica.pdf)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">First, the court said ...</span>__already-existing policy__<span style="font-size: 8pt;">. See Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U.S. 88, 101 (2004) (“a phrase gathers meaning from the words around it”) (citation omitted). </span>
==2NC== 
===**Interpretation**=== 
**Increase requires pre-existence**
**Brown, 03** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">– US Federal Judge for the UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF OREGON (ELENA MARK and PAUL GUSTAFSON, Plaintiffs, v. VALLEY INSURANCE COMPANY and VALLEY PROPERTY AND CASUALTY, Defendants, 7/17, lexis)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">FCRA does not define the … insurance [**23] coverage at a lower price.</span>

===**Case List**=== 
**The DOD**
**GAO 11**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (May, Cristina T. Chaplain – Director Acquisition and Sourcing Management “SPACE ACQUISITIONS DOD Delivering New Generations of Satellites, but Space System Acquisition Challenges Remain”, http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d11590t.pdf WSX)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">Systems achieving or ... PTSS design.</span>

**And NASA**
**NASA 7/1**<span style="font-size: 8pt;"> (“</span><span style="font-family: Cambria,serif; font-size: 8pt;">What's Next For NASA?” 2011 http://www.nasa.gov/about/whats_next.html)</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">The end of the space...active galaxies</span>

<span style="font-size: 8pt;">.</span>