=1NC-Whiteness K= 
**Technology is the new American religion. Their fables of technological utopianism within the NASA mythos are fueled by white supremacy and evade criticism to prevent change.**
**Dinerstein 2k6** <span style="font-size: 8pt;">(Dinerstein, Joel [Assistant Professor of English at Tulane University ] “Technology and Its Discontents: On the Verge of the Posthuman” American Quarterly, Volume 58, Number 3, Septermber 2006, pp. 569-570)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Immediately after 9/11....</span>I hope to have shown that the posthuman is an escape from the panhuman.

**The only acceptable policy option is a rejection of racism.**
**Memmi**,<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Professor Emeritus of Sociology @ Unv. Of Paris, </span>**2K**
Albert-; //RACISM//, translated by Steve Martinot, pp.163-165
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">The struggle against racism will be..... the stakes are irresistible.</span>


**<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 12pt;">Our exposition will bring race to the forefront of the discussion and uncover the alliance between the submerged or silent rhetoric of whiteness.</span>**

**<span style="font-size: 12pt;">DR. CRENSHAW 1997</span>**Prof of Speech Comm @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD. USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala.; WESTERN JOURNAL OF COMMUNICATION; //Resisting Whiteness’ Rhetorical Silence//; 61(3), Summer; pp. 253-278.

<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">Ideological rhetorical criticism....privileged social status (van Dijk; Wellman). </span>


=**2NC- Overview**= 
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Their discourse of space exploration is a racist attempt to make the white body the human body to other civilizations</span>**
**<span style="font-size: 13pt;">Puglies, Prof of Critical and Cultural Studies, 2</span>**<span style="font-size: 9pt;"> (2002,Joseph Puglies, Associate Professor in the Department of Critical and Cultural Studies @ Macquarie University(Australia), Law and Literature, Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 367-39, “"Super Visum Corporis": Visuality, Race, Narrativity and the Body of Forensic Patholog,” JSTOR)</span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 8pt;">In all the texts that......</span>Characteristics,” Knight writes:

**And their silence on race is not accidental; it is symbolic of traditional forms of knowledge production that are passed down from the ruling white elites.**
**Mills ’97** [Charles Mills, Associate Professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, Chicago. He is author of blackness visible: Essays on philosophy and race, also from Cornell. Cornell University Press, “The Racial Contract”, 1997, Page(s) 1-2] soap
<span style="font-size: 10pt;">White supremacy is......</span>political are highlighted.

<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Rhetorical silence protects the invisibility of whiteness and preserves material white privilege. Ideological systems are made up of both presences and absences. What is absent, unmarked, the unspoken and unsayable becomes positively marked as the assumed norm.</span>**</span>
<span class="underline">**<span style="font-size: 10pt;">Crenshaw ’97</span>**</span><span style="font-size: 10pt;"> professor of speech comm. @ Univ. Ala. Carrie-PhD, USC; former director of debate @ Univ. of Ala; Western </span>
<span style="font-family: 'Times New Roman',serif; font-size: 10pt;">This analysis brings into focus several......</span>rhetorical silence about whiteness.